Business Development: From Start to Scale
Prof. C Bhaktavatsala Rao
Department of Management Studies
Indian Institute of Technology Madras

Week - 04
Market and Competitor Analysis
Lecture - 18
Market Structures

Hi friends, welcome to the NPTEL course Business Development: From Start to Scale. We

are in week 4 with the theme of Market and Competitor Analysis; in this lecture the 18th in

the series, we discuss the topic of Market Structures.

The objective of this lesson is to illustrate how product clusters create macro markets, and

individual product lines can create micro markets. This principle is illustrated with reference

to two industries; most of the information is taken from public domain websites of the

companies as well as analyst and other annual report related data sources.

(Refer Slide Time: 00:54)

So, the first of the two industries are the off-highway brakes industry; it is a co-learning

presentation developed by Murugesh B, an IIT Madras DOMS MBA student.

(Refer Slide Time: 01:08)

So, let us look at the industry focus; if you look at mobility as one large industry, it can have

passenger transport and goods transport as the two sections, passenger transport has personal

transport and public transport as two subsections.

When you look at goods transport, there is an on-highway and there is also an off-highway

division. On highway again is in terms of inter-city and intra-city, off-highway is in terms of

farm equipment, construction, and mining equipment, and construction and mining

equipment is further subdivided into earth moving equipment, material handling equipment,

and road construction and infrastructure.

So, if you look at the whole universe of mobility vehicles, these are classified in terms of

different transportation modes and each transportation mode is further subdivided into more

specialized transportation modes. Whatever we see on the roads regularly is the passenger

transport or goods transport at the macro level.

And passenger transport is divided into what we travel personally by way of 2-wheelers and

4-wheelers or in public buses as public transport. However, when you look at goods transport,

the division is even more complex as I have read out, on highway means it could be within

the city public transportation or between cities coach and bus transportation.

What is more complex is the off-highway transportation which comprises tractors, tillers and

such other farm equipment and the infrastructure related construction and mining equipment.

These again are further divided as you have seen. Out of this,

the brakes and other

components vary in terms of the design characteristics, strength characteristics, and also the

overall volumes.

When you look at the passenger transport, the requirements are in large numbers, and the

sophistication of the design is high in terms of the tolerances; however, the duty cycles are

not as rigorous as in the off-highway component industry. The brakes or other components

for off-highway vehicles or less in numbers but are expected to be much more durable in

consonance with the nature of the equipment that handles off highways.

This presentation is focused on off-highway vehicles and related components which is brake

systems and that constitute an industry as far as this study is concerned.

(Refer Slide Time: 03:58)

As I said, each of the categories can be further subdivided; even the passenger category can

be subdivided, but it cannot be as extensive in its subdivision as the off-highway vehicles. So,

when you look at the farm equipment within the off-highway vehicle segment, you have

tractors, sprayers, combines, cotton harvesters, field cultivators, cutters and shudders, wheel

tractor scrapers, planters, seeders, plows, balers, binders, sub soilers, harrows, rotary tillers,

loaders, hullers and grain carts.

And what is common amongst all of these is they are all agricultural equipment of different

types and for different kinds of agricultural use and probably also for different types of field

conditions. When you look at construction and mining equipment, they are broadly going to

fall under three classes.

The first is the earth-moving equipment: excavators, graders, loaders, skid loaders, backhoes,

bulldozers, trenches, scrapers, wheel-loading shovels, and underground mining equipment

these all fall under earth-moving equipment. The purpose of these earth-moving equipment is

to take away the earth from the construction sites or non-construction sites, move them and

put them under required usage conditions in other sites.

The second classification is the material handling equipment; these are cranes, crawlers,

off-highway tractors, off-highway trucks,

tankers,

telehandlers, underground mining

equipment and so on. They move very robust, very weighty construction equipment or the

components thereof from one place to another place. These are the material handling

equipment also within the construction site; they undertake the handling of materials from

point A to point B.

Then we have road construction and other infrastructure equipment; these are graders, other

construction equipment, pavers that is which make the road surface very smooth, plate

compactors, rollers,

tunnel boring machines, and so on. Tunnel boring machines are

important in the construction of metro rails and could even be important for the hyperloop

kind of infrastructure development which Elon Musk is proposing.

This data has been sourced from Frost and Sullivan's report on the global off-highway vehicle

industry outlook 2021. What this chart illustrates is that there could be a macro market based

around off-highway vehicles; however, each product line and in some cases even each

product could constitute a micro market, and the development of market structures is

dependent on the product hierarchy that we may encounter in each product cluster.

(Refer Slide Time: 06:57)

So, this firm, Carlisle Brake and Friction, is a specialist in the development of brake items

and frictional items for highway equipment; they also provide hydraulic solutions. This

company is a leading global solutions provider of high-performance and severe duty cycle

brake, clutch, and transmission applications which are suitable for a wide range of markets.

There is a combined R&D and testing capability, there is global manufacturing capability and

as group of subject matter experts. Therefore, the products are in terms of highly engineered

precision braking systems, very durable along with transmission and hydraulic actuation

products.

The company has 80-plus years of experience in the highly demanding off-highway brake

system solutions. It is also a preferred partner with many OEMs in specialty applications such

as energy, military, railways, and aviation. So, two things come out of this one: the overall

focus on the off-highway situation and the kind of customized solutions that are offered for

each product

line, and thirdly, collaborative business development along with domain

organizations as well as individual vehicle organizations.

(Refer Slide Time: 08:23)

So, the off-highway component brakes industry is also subject to the five forces; the threat of

new entrants is generally low because the whole industry is capital-intensive and the volumes

are not too high; therefore, only those companies which can afford a capital-intensive entry,

even for low volumes can sustain themselves with new entries. And those established

companies gain this as their entry barrier against the new competition.

The bargaining power of suppliers, that is the brake offering, is very high because the

volumes are low, and the requirements are special. As far as the threat of substitutes is

concerned, one may see that the overall design profile of the vehicles tends to be standard and

rather unvaried over the years that is there is no great technological obsolescence, or there is

no great rapid technological evolution in the off-highway industry.

Therefore,

the threat of substitutes is rather low, and new technologies come more as

improvements rather than disruptive technologies. The bargaining power of customers is

medium, and the switching costs are very high because spare parts occupy a central place in

the overall operating cost of the half highway vehicle.

As far as rivalry is concerned, R&D dictates the level of rivalry, flexible manufacturing

dictates the level of rivalry, and the proximity to the customer moderates the level of rivalry.

There could be still some kind of new development, such as clean engines off highway

vehicles, but that seems to be on a longer-term horizon.

Because for these kinds of new clean energy options to be successful, high-volume viability

is required, which this industry does not offer in the immediate scale. Already the vehicles

are priced high and if you want

to have low-volume energy efficient or clean energy

alternatives, the prices will only go up further.

(Refer Slide Time: 10:35)

The vision and strategy of the company were as follows; the vision is to be a leading system

solution provider for off-highway specialty vehicles. The vision is very focused, and it is as

good as the off-high specialty vehicle industry moving forward. The mission is to provide

cutting-edge technological solutions to customers.

Strategy focused on extensive R&D with local manufacturing locations to support a global

customer base. Note this:

the company has decided to outsource as well as offshore

manufacturing to support a global customer base and the idea is to be close to the customer

mainly because the equipment is so heavy that it does not make much sense to keep moving

components and vehicles from geography to geography.

The other component which is very important is the R and D strategy; the focus is on

futuristic brake system solutions focus on new material development, which gives value to

the customer and cross-industry applications that is, if one type of brake system is applicable

for more than one type of vehicles in this off-highway application then that would be

synergistic in terms of the R and D strategy.

Manufacturing is in terms of modern and asset-light manufacturing locations close to

customer region by region and the marketing strategy is to co-create with customers the kind

of earth-moving equipment or the off-highway equipment that are required, and generally the

solution is not in terms of vehicle but in terms of system level solution.

A coal mine may require different kinds of tractive power and different kinds of mobility

parameters compared to iron-ore equipment or road construction equipment. The marketing

strategy has to be customized to each application.

(Refer Slide Time: 12:32)

In this situation, strategic marketing plays a very big role at the component level; master

cylinders and friction packs are the ones which are positioned as the key differentiators. At

the assembly level, actuators and follower cylinders, as well as clutch assemblies, are

positioned.

At the system level the type of brake system, whether it is the wet brake system or the

hydraulic system, is positioned and at the solution level, pedal to wheel or a full system with

ABS ASR are positioned. This indicates that marketing and business development in this

industry is not just marketing as commonly understood in an FMCG industry or a consumer

electronics industry.

It is much more techno-economic in terms of conveying the technical features and getting the

buying. If a company has increased content per vehicle and it provides full ownership of the

brake system, then it automatically leads to less number of suppliers for the OEMs and the

OEMs also prefer one-stop solution.

Therefore, in this focused area to be as comprehensive as possible in terms of technology and

cost competitiveness would drive business development.

(Refer Slide Time: 13:49)

Let us go to the semiconductor process control solution again. This is an IIT Madras DoMS

project; student credits are Muki V. S. Nithya Ramamoorthy and Srinivas Kanala.

Information is again sourced from the publicly available website information.

(Refer Slide Time: 14:08)

As we know the, computing devices are multifarious today: personal computers, portable

computers, LCD screens, cellular phones, smartphones, tablet computers, smart watches,

hybrid car or some of the devices or equipment which require semiconductors. But in terms

of the operation of certain accessories as well, semiconductors are required for the OLED

screen, autonomous car, flexible screens, virtual reality, cloud, space exploration, robotics,

and AI.

What is to be noted is the semiconductor, or the chip is the heart of any computing device as

well as the connectivity with the accessories and the connectivity of this system with the

storage facilities, either server-based or remote cloud-based. In such a situation, we can

understand the ubiquitous nature of the semiconductor industry; it is there in every product, it

is going to be there in every household product, even to a greater degree.

Sensor systems also require semiconductors to operate; the goal of a semiconductor industry

in this context

is to manufacture at very high volumes: smaller, cheaper, and faster

semiconductors and this strategy is required to facilitate more streamlined, more powerful,

and more affordable technology products.

We have seen during the COVID times that there has been a significant shift towards

computing devices,

telecommunication devices, and sensors, as a result of which the

semiconductors which traditionally used to go to vehicles have faced a serious supply

roadblock and this has, in turn, affected the output of those kinds of products.

Semiconductors may be one item in terms of the overall technical characteristic or the design

feature but

in terms of how a semiconductor powers different products and therefore,

different

industries are really multifarious. We need to understand this positioning of

semiconductor technology to appreciate better how business development for semiconductors

could take place.

(Refer Slide Time: 16:38)

KLA Tensor Corporation is a provider of process control and yield management solutions for

semiconductors and related non-electronics industries. They develop and manufacture

process control and process-enabling solutions that accelerate electronic devices. Here we are

not talking about the chip per se if a chip has to be done.

We require the foundry for the chip, we require the manufacture of the chip and finally, the

coding of the chip. There are several instruments which are involved in this process defect

inspectors, nanoindenters, optical profilers, sheet resistance mappers, stylus profilers, and

thin film reflectometers. So, this is very sophisticated technology in terms of design and

manufacturing.

(Refer Slide Time: 17:27)

So, in this, the strategy of the firm has to be accordingly developed; semiconductors being a

highly competitive industry,

the business strategy must aim at minimum cost

through

industry-leading, efficiency and automation. The corporate strategy that is the next higher

level of strategy must look at 'zero uncertainty' in the minds of customers and the customers

are the businesses which deal with computers which deal with automobiles through consistent

on-time delivery of the highest quality product. And the highest-level conglomerate strategy

is one of acquiring as many companies as possible to ensure that the companies cover a large

market across all types of automation like solar, nanotechnology, etcetera.

We have seen earlier that the semiconductor by name could be one, but the applications it

powers are several, and each of the chips that powers each of these special applications would

in itself be special; therefore, there are companies which are specialize in different types of

chips for different types of industries.

Here the business development approach comes up as one of acquiring companies to be able

to broad base the product and manufacturing capability across the various industrial verticals.

The corporate strategy is in terms of the R&D focus, operational excellence and global

collaborations; only when all these three are combined the strategy of a semiconductor firm

can be comprehensive and fruitful.

(Refer Slide Time: 19:13)

So, what are the demand types that are experienced by the semiconductor industry? The types

of demand have been mentioned by me in an earlier lecture, from something as negative

demand to something as over full demand I have mentioned. So, as far as the semiconductor

industry is concerned, it is encountering or it is facing a full demand situation, the industry

demand for semiconductors is only going to continue to improve.

And the customers' R&D investments and leading-edge product developments are only

increasing. There are strong growth drivers for semiconductors from the digitization of more

industries and related end-market products; every interface in fact, can have a semiconductor

going forward.

Every agricultural action, every mechanical action, and every service action would have

semiconductors in their activity platforms. Some of the emerging markets for semiconductors

are electrification of automobiles, automation of automobiles, rising data centers, 5G

infrastructure setup, digital healthcare, work from home, virtual

learning, digital

entertainment, etcetera.

There are also emerging technologies in robotics, virtual reality, etcetera which will demand

high use of semiconductors, gamification, or the use of games in mainstream industries or the

educational and learning industries is going to give a further Philip to the use of

semiconductors in such industries.

(Refer Slide Time: 20:57)

We have seen earlier the new age marketing mix, which I referred to these are the additional

4Vs; we need to have not only the 4Ps which we talked about earlier in terms of product,

place, promotion, and pricing. We need to have these 4 Vs validated experiences in the case

of this company. It was founded in 1976, along with the growing use of chips, and it has

grown over the past several years as a global leader in the electronics value chain.

Second, velocity: is it going to be a single product, single country company or it is going to

be multi-product, multi-country company? The velocity of growth has been very high and the

company being present in 16 countries across multiple product lines illustrates that. Then the

third one is the vendors' responsibility; process control itself is for reducing the defects at the

end of the production cycle. This semiconductor is known for the quality of the process

control.

And the value over lifetime depends on the kind of applications for which the semiconductor

can be used, and this could include the adoption of artificial intelligence and machine

learning, precision, higher yields, improved time-to-market and reduced customers cost of

ownership.

So, these are the 4Vs that are relevant for a technology-oriented company such as the

company we are discussing in the field of semiconductors.

(Refer Slide Time: 22:32)

So, how do we develop marketing strategies and plans for such a company? Marketing as we

know, derives its strengths from its basic concept of marketing, that is, position a product

where demand is there or create demand where the product is available through appropriate

communication and achieve holistic business management.

There are four aspects of marketing which even a semiconductor company needs to do

relationship marketing particularly because all the customers or big businesses and big

industries. Second, integrated marketing because it is not just selling it is techno-economic

selling and marketing that is involved in marketing semiconductors.

Third is internal marketing because right from the raw material sourcing to the making of the

final chip and the delivery, the entire organization has to be aligned with the rigor that the end

user industry expects from the semiconductors. And the fourth is the performance marketing,

the performance of the marketing division by itself and also marketing leveraging the high

performance of the semiconductors for marketing the products.

So, how do we achieve the right mix in such a situation? We need to have customer product

profitability analysis; you need to have SWOT analysis, and you need to have opportunity

and threat matrix.

(Refer Slide Time: 24:03)

How do we develop business strategies and business development strategies and plans for

those kinds of products? In 2006, KLA Tencor was looking forward to being the world's

leading inspection and measurement company. Marketing efforts focused on building

long-term relationships with the customers.

This is extracted from their website as the five pillars of the core strategy. When you relate it

to any industry you will find that there is going to be some similarity in some areas, but the

technical nature is very prominent in this kind of industry. The first is to strengthen customer

trust and how do you do that to enhance operational excellence capabilities and by improving

the cost of ownership and delivering the future nodes for the customers.

Customers can believe that there will be continuous upgradation of the semiconductors, and

they will be effectively utilized for their new generation products. Second holistic lithography

and application that

is strengthen the leadership position of the company in in device

metrology; metrology means measurement sophisticated measurement is called metrology,

enabling high-order orderly correction.

Securing a winning position in pattern fidelity control and combining it with superior

computational lithography, lithography is the core of the preparation of the semiconductor.

Then, DUV's competitiveness continues the innovation leadership driving DUV to the

highest

level of performance by expanding the installed base and through continuous

improvement and operational excellence.

Then the EUV industrialization secures high-volume manufacturing and improves cost

effectiveness for our customers by enhancing the value of EUV technology for future nodes

down to the 2-nanometer logic node. High-NA enables next-generation geometric shrink by

extending the 0.33 NA product portfolio to enable high NA EUV at the 2-nanometer logic

node followed by memory nodes at comparable density.

I am deliberately not explaining or expanding these abbreviations because I want you to get a

dip into the technology and the technical nature of business development in companies such

as these. I would request you to refer through Google to these terms and try to get an

appreciation of what this means in terms of the overall semiconductor industry.

The key point, therefore, is that technological developments across the entire value chain

provided strength to business development in this case. The company conducts market

service with consideration of the entire Tokyo Electron Group, proposing marketing

strategies that lead to the development of new business which is corporate marketing and

product marketing which is specific to the products being developed by the Tokyo Electronic

Group.

So, you can see that this company is part of a group, and it is a part of the conglomerate

called Tokyo Electron Group.

(Refer Slide Time: 27:16)

So, when you are wanting to develop these marketing strategies, you got to focus on six

foundations one you need technology innovation, you need a creative business strategy

because the business strategy must be based on the evolution of the end product industries.

You need to have a unique business model which takes into account the capital intensity of

this type of product and the high-volume nature of the end product demand; you are required

to have operational excellence for high throughput as also for high assurance to the customer

that the supply chain will meet the demand requirements of the customers.

A high degree of customer connect

is required because the semiconductor has to be

tailor-made to the end product, and end product has to utilize the full potential of the

semiconductor and quality focus needs no mention at all. So, it is the technology that is at the

core of the marketing strategy or business development strategy for this kind of company.

(Refer Slide Time: 28:23)

So, how does sustainable corporate growth come? It comes through product innovation plus

operational excellence plus strategic creativity;

these three together provide sustainable

business growth for a company such as this because of this focus on technology because of

this focus on eliminating defects through deep learning technology, ensuring higher

sensitivity, lower nuisance rates and more accurate binning the group has been able to earn a

higher level of awards.

In 2020, Tokyo Electron and Intel's 2020 Supplier Continuous Quality Improvement SCQI

Award, BAE Systems honors Analog Devices with a Supplier of the Year Award. So, this is

part of the semiconductor ecosystem in terms of the process control solutions which help the

chip manufacturers develop their chips and manufacture their chips.

(Refer Slide Time: 29:26)

So, there could be material issues in any industry, and it is the strategy of the company that

needs to understand the material issues and then eliminate them as we go forward in our

business strategy. There are two dimensions to the material issues, one importance to the

business and importance to society.

In the case of this particular Tokyo group, there are five types of material issues: the first is

product competitiveness, second is responsiveness to customers, third is higher productivity,

the fourth is people and workplaces and the fifth is management foundation. You will

understand or appreciate from these material issues that a company has to be on top of these

material issues and make sure that they do not act as roadblocks in terms of developing the

business further.

In each of these material issues, there will be medium-term goals and there will be priority

themes. In respect of product competitiveness, the medium-term goal is one of creating a

strong next-generation product lineup and the priority themes are technological innovation

and the environmental sensitivity of product specification as well as the manufacturing

process.

The second material issue relates to responsiveness to customers; you have to be the best and

sole strategic partner which means you need to create solutions that create value for

customers, and you need to improve customer satisfaction. The third is higher productivity,

constantly pursue higher management efficacy which means you need to have continuous

improvement or kaizen in the business operations.

You need to have high level of quality management and you have to aim at continuous

improvements in customer productivity yield. It is not only your yield in your factory, but

you have to ensure yield improvement in the customer's factories. People and workplaces

maximize the dreams and drive of people; you should have diversity and inclusion, you

should assure career development.

You should enable work-life balance and you should protect the health and safety of the

employees. And in terms of the management foundation, you need to build a management

foundation for increasing value that covers governance, risk management, compliance,

environmental management, and supply chain management.

You will notice from this that while two of the material issues are entirely technical and

customer-centric, one issue is internally oriented in terms of higher operational excellence

and higher productivity, two or in terms of the higher order, ESG concerns, environmental

empathy, social responsibility, and corporate governance.

So, these five material issues covering technology, covering customer centricity, covering

people and organization as well as the guiding principles of management, dictate even in a

highly technology-intensive industry, the path forward that could be adopted by any company

in any industry.

(Refer Slide Time: 32:43)

So, how would the industry structure look like in this kind of electronics value chain? The

industry starts with the wafers and reticles; these combine to form the chips, then you have

wafer-level packaging, and then they become components and the components become either

printed circuit boards and IC substrates or they become flat panel displays.

And the end products are automotive vehicles, connected devices such as laptops, watches,

smart speakers, VRAR, security cameras, smart everything or anything, mobile devices such

as phones, 5G infrastructure, towers, data-based products such as data servers, and data

centers cloud.

What you will see from here is that in each of these product and sub-product categories, we

have got companies which are world leaders in their own right; whether it is the Intel, Sony,

Samsung, BPIL, Toshiba, Hoya, Valka, you will find that every name you can relate to in

terms of technological leadership in end products is involved with this company.

So, the business units are in terms of global service support, semiconductor process control,

and electronics packaging and components. The company is able to offer these three types of

services through each of the three business units. So, it can be a player in the global

electronics value chain which is of the highest sophistication.

(Refer Slide Time: 34:23)

So, how do you analyze this kind of company? When have you pioneered? How many

locations do you have globally? What is the kind of worldwide force you have? What is the R

and D spent over the last 4 years or 5 years? What are the pro forma revenues, and what is the

kind of global entries?

So, when you look at the model of this company, it serves as a role model for any company

which would like to operate in the technology industry. Highly differentiated products in

value, thus demanding higher gross margin, continuous and conscious engagement with

customers to understand and support current and future needs in an area where technology is

changing very rapidly, and end products are multiplying by the dozens each year.

Focus on operational efficiency, which includes operational flexibility to meet the evolving

needs, reliable supply chain,

innovation through R&D, expanding to adjacent markets

through acquisitions, and talent retention and growth through employee benefits.

So, what are the primers of entry into this kind of industry? If somebody has new proprietary

technologies, those companies can enter, and this company, with its rapid technological

evolution, offers that particular and perfect entry spot for highly technologically capable

companies.

Second the incumbents could face obsolescence of their technologies not because they may

not know the importance of technology, but because they are loath to invest further rounds of

capital

investment

to continuously upgrade the technologies. So, the technology of the

incumbents could may could become obsolete.

And the third one is the diversified domains of the entrants. So, someone who is already in

the electronic products industry could come into the chip industry and from the chip industry,

they can get it to the wafer industry and from the wafer industry to a participate in the entire

value chain through the wafer connectivity and process controls.

The entry barriers could be proven technology-based precision equipment

trust with

customers developed across global partnerships. So, chip is an industry where product and

manufacturing are irretrievably interconnected; the quality of one determines the quality of

the other.

The specification of the product, which is the chip or the wafer, determines the sophistication

of the manufacturing equipment as well as the manufacturing process control. So, company

analysis again has to be detailed, technical, and to the spot.

(Refer Slide Time: 37:07)

The competitor landscape is not easy either big companies such as Applied Materials, Lam

Research, TEL being the company which we are considering analog devices, Samsung

Electro-Mechanics, Hermes Micro Vision or the competitors to the TEL which we are we

have considered in this lecture.

(Refer Slide Time: 37:27)

The competitive advantage for a company arises from cost

leadership;

technological

leadership is taken for granted it has to be there for the company to even survive in the

industry. Differentiation is necessary in terms of developing chips for various customer

needs, you got to be known as high-quality producer of these products.

So, the cost leadership is the one which is going to provide the competitive edge, lean design

product, scale efficient production, cost control, self-inspection, and elimination of marginal

accounts could be the cost leadership strategies of their company which is in this field.

(Refer Slide Time: 38:10)

Understanding and connecting with customers in a horizontal manner is important, for the

process control segment in the semiconductor industry. Customers are manufacturers, that is,

the business customers. KLA instruments have tools that cater to both fabs and labs. The

company serves a wide range of customers, including academic research labs, industrial

manufacturers, and semi and compound semi-industry.

Customers are supported with service, and they are also supported with development and

manufacturing and the bridge entities to make this happen or the service infrastructure, global

sales infrastructure, overseas subsidiaries and sales management, and accounting systems.

How do you do the brand planning? You have to position your product as a niche solution to

cater to the business needs of the manufacturer and you need to consistently brand yourself to

the next higher level.

(Refer Slide Time: 39:00)

By unifying sales and marketing efforts, semiconductor companies can emphasize revenue

generation throughout the sales funnel, from lead generation to purchasing and beyond, and

they could provide support and meet customer needs after sales.

Strategic marketing or business development for semiconductor technology includes the

following: 1, outbound marketing programs alerting potential customers to futuristic products

and services that the company provides. How they are superior to the competition, and how

they uniquely meet the customers' needs.

The second is the inbound marketing program that is responding to customers who reach out

to the semiconductor manufacturer for products or solutions to their pain points sales support

programs in terms of tracking sales leads. Provide quotes and organize sales packs, providing

sales teams with the information needed to convince customers to buy.

And finally, product line support programs provide product information to the sales team and

prospective customers while supporting post-sale life management and alerting customers to

new parts, patches, and replacement products. With this, we come to the end of this lecture,

but you have would have noted from these two examples as to how macro markets become

micro markets, and the nature of the markets is very much dependent on the nature of the

products.

The products considered here the semiconductor process control systems and equipment as

well as the off-highway brake equipment or nothing similar to the ones which I have

discussed so far, whether they are the FMCG products or automobile products, oil and gas

products and multiple industries of various types such as regenerative medicine or artificial

intelligence etcetera.

These are highly technical and highly specialized activities, which we call industries based on

the products. One is low volume but high technology and high capital intensity; the other is

of high volume and high technology and high capital intensity; what is common between the

two high technology and high capital intensity?

One of the lessons that we get is that irrespective of the nature of the industry and its

specialization in these days high technology and high capital intensity are the order of the

day. We need to have business strategies which enable competitive advantage and

competitive efficiency even at low volumes and high capital intensities, which makes it easier

to have viability at high volumes as well as with high technology and high capital intensity.

And business development strategies also have to follow this principle and position the

products as perfect techno-economic products and conduct these business development and

strategic processes as techno-academic marketing and business development process.

Thank you; I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.

