Business Development: From Start to Scale
Prof. C Bhaktavatsala Rao
Department of Management Studies
Indian Institute of Technology Madras

Week - 04
Market and Competitor Analysis
Lecture - 17
Industry and Market Analysis

Hi friends, welcome to the NPTEL course Business Development: From Start to Scale; we

are in week 4 with the theme of Market and Competitor Analysis. In this lecture, the 17th in

the series, we discuss the topic of Industry and Market Analysis.

(Refer Slide Time: 00:27)

This is a case study of the specialty chemicals industry that has been conducted as part of the

MBA coursework in the Department of Management Studies Indian Institute of Technology,

Madras.

(Refer Slide Time: 00:42)

Conducting the study of an industry is both an art and a science. It is an art because each

industry will have its special characteristics; it is special nuances which will be known to

only those who are steep into the industrial environment. However, it is also a science

because industry has its metrics, industry has its structural features that can be metricized and

based on that we can understand the structure of the industry.

So, let us take the example of specialty chemicals industry which is one of the potentially

growing industries in India. Specialty chemicals are the ones that are used based on their

performance and function, the effect chemicals or formulation chemicals entail, the specialty

chemicals market accounts for about 22 percent of the total chemicals and petrochemicals

industry in India.

This market is forecast to grow at a compounded annual growth rate CAGR of around 16

percent over the next few years. The industry caters to demand from different end-user

industries such as food processing, textile, automotive, paints and coatings, real estate,

agriculture, and home and personal care.

India ranks 14th in the exports and 8th in the imports of chemicals worldwide; currently,

China is the leading manufacturer and exporter of the specialty chemicals.

(Refer Slide Time: 02:21)

What is the Specialty Chemical? There are 2 types of chemicals: one is the Base Commodity

chemical, and the second is the Specialty Chemical. The difference between the 2 arises from

the kind of customization that happens and the kind of company capabilities that are required

to customize the product.

So,

there are factors of differentiation primarily 6; the first is the Product variety, the

commodity chemicals are standardized products, and they are applicable for a whole lot of

industries on the other hand specialty chemicals are customized products, for example, for the

paint industry, for the pharmaceutical industry and so on.

There is a base for differentiation in any industry in the case of several industries, we have

seen that the base for differentiation varies from product specifications to pricing power to

niche positioning and customer service various other parameters. In the case of base

commodity chemicals as the word suggests, the base for differentiation is in terms of pricing,

whereas in the case of specialty chemicals it is the R&D capability of the company together

with the quality consistency that supports specialty chemicals. Market structure and

commodity industry draw in large number of players for the reasons that technology is

commoditized B barriers to entry are lowered and 3 there would be opportunities for entrants

to come in at different levels of production.

The market is already established for base commodity chemicals. For specialty chemicals the

competition is limited, but at the same time to enter that market it requires greater capabilities

on the part of the firm. As far as the switching cost is concerned, one can alter from one

commodity chemical to another commodity chemical.

Customers generally prefer low-cost suppliers because of the standardized products. In

specialty chemicals, the switching costs are moderate one I would not say that one cannot

switch one specialty chemical to the other or one manufactured to the other. However, the

switching costs are moderate and there is a long approval process to get a specialty chemical

listed as a vendor.

Whether it is in Indian company or whether it is a US company the core growth driver for

commodity chemicals is the cost leadership. Whereas the core driver for specialty chemicals

is the innovation-driven high R&D economies of scale will have strong influence in the

viability of the commodity chemicals business.

Because the products are standardized the product is amenable to higher economies of scale,

but with low margins. Whereas, in the specialty chemicals, the benefit of the scale is limited

because the portfolio by definition,

is of high variety and low volume. So this is the

characteristic of the specialty chemical industry.

Whenever you look at any product, you will get this kind of classification, let us look at an

innovative form of molecule and a generic form of molecule. An innovative form of molecule

would be highly customized towards the disease pathway, and there will be one at best

another 5, 6 all developed by big pharma under patented monopoly.

On the other hand, the generic molecule would be a standardized product which is already

developed to a product which has been approved and has been in the market for the

monopoly period and is now patent protection. The basis for differentiation in respect of the

specialty pharmaceutical is in terms of the R and D innovation, the creativity and it is

uniqueness in addressing the disease pathway, whereas the base for differentiation for

commodity pharmaceuticals or generic pharmaceuticals is nothing but pricing. The market

structure for big pharma is in terms of fewer players offering customized,

innovative

products. Whereas

the market structure for commodity pharmaceuticals or generic

pharmaceuticals is characterized by a large number of players.

The generic pharmaceuticals business is characterized by low switching costs;

the

prescription is only in terms of the generic name therefore people can switch from one kind

of manufacturer to another kind of manufacturer. On the other hand, in big pharma, switching

costs are very high because there are no alternatives available. In fact, switching itself is

prohibited in the case of certain products.

The core growth driver for specialty pharmaceuticals is innovation and clinical capability.

Whereas, in the case of commodity pharmaceuticals it is the cost leadership and the ability to

maintain quality at

low costs. Economy scale is very important

for commodity

pharmaceuticals. They are standardized; therefore high level of production can take place and

any generic market explodes after the patent protection expires.

As far as the specialty pharmaceuticals or the innovative pharmaceuticals is concerned, the

benefit is limited because there will be fewer companies operating in the market and the

portfolio is not as broad as in the case of pharmaceuticals that is in the generic career. And

this differentiation can be applied between a light commercial vehicle and a medium

commercial vehicle and between a 2-wheeler and passenger car.

Or one type of passenger car and the other type of passenger car and so on. It can be applied

in respect of a branded product such as a Mercedes Benz car and done relatively less branded

product such as a car which is obtaining in the market such as Skoda. So, the differences have

to be appreciated and adroitly apply to different customer groups.

(Refer Slide Time: 08:29)

When you look at the specialty chemical industry, 70 percent of the market is organized and

why is it organized? Because of the very special nature of the chemical and also the

regulatory pathway involved in approving a product also the environmental and safety

concerns required that the products are manufactured with certain base level of capability and

environmental compliance, 30 percent of the market is in the unorganized sector.

There are players in different sectors which require specialty chemicals, agrochemicals, dyes

and pigments, polymer additives, F and F base ingredients, F and F functional ingredients

both relating to the food industry, construction chemicals, nutraceutical

ingredients,

surfactants, water chemicals, personal care ingredients all of these are reflective of the

specialty chemical end usage there are several players whose turnover is more than 5 billion

rupees.

When you look at the global production and global sale of specialty chemicals, you will note

that China is the dominant manufacturer, and North America comes very close China has 25

percent market share and North America has 24 percent market share; Western Europe comes

the third at 17 percent.

So, together 66 percent of the market is catered to by the developed world and China if you

add Japan the developed world has got even higher share. India is at a low 3 percent and that

is why there is so much potential for the development of a specialty chemical industry that is

organized in a proper manner.

And in terms of the segment share for the specialty chemicals agrochemicals is the largest

usage segment that is followed by dyes and pigments. And then we have base ingredients

textiles, surfactants in the 6 percent above area and functional ingredients textiles, polymers

those are all other important activities which are connected with specialty chemicals.

(Refer Slide Time: 10:49)

The industry structure in terms of the major players is shown in this slide; there are

companies which are world-scale in the Indian specialty chemical industry: Atul Industries,

Vinati Organics Limited, Deepak Nitrate, Aarti Industries, Balaji Amines Limited, Bodal

Chemicals, Sudarshan Chemical Industries we covered.

The case studies earlier Galaxy Surfactants Pidilite these are all companies which have got

specialization in specialty chemicals. BASF is a company which has German-based and it has

got leadership position globally, SRF is another specialty chemical company which has taken

a strong position in the Indian specialty chemical industry.

(Refer Slide Time: 11:29)

So,

the reasons for their dominance are discussed here. Aarti Industries worldwide, 75

percent of the portfolio is ranked in the range of first to the 4th position, covering a market

share of 25 to 40 percent in each case. And the competitive advantage for specialty chemical

industry players comes from their specialization in chemistry.

This company or the industries is ranked 3rd in chlorination, 4th in nitration, and second in

ammonolysis and hydrogenation. SRF occupies more than 50 percent market share in

domestic refrigerant market, Vinati Organics has 65 percent of the global market in isobutyl

benzene and ATBS while isobutylene it has 70 percent of the market share, all because of the

scale and the manufacturing process specialization.

Sudarshan Chemical is ranked 4th worldwide in pigment manufacturing; Atul Limited is

focused on aromatic products 95 percent market share in p-AAI and 75 percent market share

in p-AA. And these products are used in the healthcare food industry and sanitizers. Deepak

Nitrite is engaged in industrial intermediates. It holds a good global market share of around

60 percent D.A.S.D.A which is used in the manufacture of dyestuffs and optical whitening

agents.

Then we have Navin Fluorine International Limited, which is engaged in the manufacture of

fluorine and attains a market share of 35 percent in fluorochemicals. The fluorochemical

chemistry that

is the specialty of Navin Fluorine has the title itself indicates. Galaxy

surfactant has got a range which has very high customer base.

It has a customer base of 1750 plus which includes most tooth plays players and chemical

product players such as Colgate, Dabur, Loreal etcetera and it is spread over 80 plus countries

has a 15 percent global market share in phenoxyethanol, which is used in the manufacture of

soaps and perfumes.

(Refer Slide Time: 13:38)

There are many chemical types as I said Construction Chemicals is one of the chemical types,

as you can see from this chart, construction chemicals themselves or in terms of different

categories. We have chemicals which go into the concrete admixture, chemicals which help

us in repair and rehabilitation. You would have seen advertisements saying that application of

this chemical will reduce or remove water seepage.

Then you have protective coatings what you apply on the steel structures, mild steel

structures and various other structures where which need rust protection or decoration then

you have adhesives PI industries products are all adhesives, and Pidilite industry products are

also in the range of specialty chemicals providing several of these kinds of products.

Waterproofing is an important application of construction chemicals; waterproofing is done

before the final cementing of the terrace is done through tiles, then you have industrial

flooring particularly. The factory floors which have epoxy coatings when you look at the

turnover the growth is expected to be in several segments; concrete admixture is likely to

have 2 X growth.

Similarly, waterproofing would have 2 X growth. In fact, the number of segments which are

going to have 1.5 to 2 X growth is indeed large repair and rehabilitation, protective coatings,

industrial flooring, waterproofing, adhesives are all likely to have 1.5 to 2 times the growth.

Sealants are also extremely important although their turnover may not be as high.

So, the message which comes from this chart is that every segment of the specialty chemical

industry does offer its own scope. Therefore, understanding of the structure at the overall

specialty chemical industry level as also at the sub-industry level is important for strategies.

(Refer Slide Time: 15:47)

Let us look at the market size of the specialty chemical industry in terms of the segments of

the various constituents in terms of the size of the market agrochemicals lead the field. It has

got a 9-billion-dollar market size with a CAGR of 12 percent that is forecast, and are there

entry barriers? Yes, they are high is it required to be specialized in terms of product portfolio

medium.

The presence of scaled-up Indian manufacturers there are many companies which are

specializing in agrochemicals. In fact, which is the first category of specialty chemicals that

has taken off in India, then is that growth potential in the end market certainly, yes. Is this

attractive again as the full black circle indicates it is fully attractive?

When you look at the F&F and Nutraceutical segments, the market size is not as high as the

agrochemicals, but the growth rates are high. The potential to enter this market is challenging

because of the nature of the end products which require the highest level of purity and human

safety, but the overall attractiveness is high.

When you look at the dyes and pigments segment, you will find that the market size is pretty

attractive at 7 billion dollars, but the growth rate is not as high as what exists for the F and F

and neutral segments. The entry barriers are medium product specialization, the medium

presence of scaled-up players is very high, and end market growth potential is medium. Yet

because of the share market size, its attractiveness is high.

Personal care chemicals are the ones which are going into the perfume's ingredients, lipsticks,

balms, and so many other things. It is a growing market 15 percent is the forecast CAGR.

Where the entry barriers are high, so are the product specialization barriers. The presence of

scaled-up Indian players is pretty low, and the end market growth potential is high it is also

an attractive industry to operate in.

Surfactants is a product which goes into toothpaste and other hygiene products; market size is

relatively better than personal care chemicals, but much lower than the agrochemicals at 2

billion dollars. The growth rate is poised to pick up in the years to come, entry barriers are of

medium scale and product specialization is also of medium scale.

There are not many companies present in India in this segment, and the end market growth

potential is also as per the growth potential of the segment. Therefore, is it fully attractive?

Not really, but at least 75 percent of it is attractive. When you look at textile chemicals it is

again a medium-sized market with reasonably high growth of 11.5 percent with different

characteristics in the industry structure.

Construction chemicals is another high-growth market, but low volume base. It has got high

entry barriers and high-end market growth potential, but has an opportunity to enter because

not many companies are present in this industry. Polymer additives is another specialized area

which has a market size of 1.3 billion dollars and a growth rate of 10 percent. It has got its

own varying entry barriers etcetera.

It is not as attractive as the rest of the chemical industry constituents. Water chemicals, again,

is 75 percent attractive because although the volume base is low or the revenue base is low, it

has got high growth potential, it has high entry barriers, it has attractive because not many

players are present in this segment, and market growth potential is also high.

So, when you characterize a particular industry, and it is segmented on the basis of key

factors of structural strength entry barriers, product specialization, presence of scaled-up,

Indian players, end market growth potential, you can understand which industrial segment is

appropriate for entry and that decision is also subject to the kind of technological and

intensive capability and investment capability that you have.

So, when you look at the overall Indian specialty chemical industry, it has been consistently

growing, and it can be expected to be doubling every 6 years or so. And within that the

construction chemical industry is also following a similar pattern of doubling every 6 years or

so.

(Refer Slide Time: 20:32)

So, what is the spread of the Indian specialty chemical industry? The specialty chemicals do

not happen by themselves;

they require other building blocks, which come from

petrochemical building blocks, petrochemical

industrial

intermediates, bulk chemicals

organic and inorganic.

So, if you want to look at the entire value chain from the beginning of the petro product

manufactured to the specialty chemicals delivery, you will find that the petrochemical

building blocks are the ones where we have self-sufficiency. In the case of intermediates, we

are a net importer getting several of the intermediates from China.

When you look at the bulk chemicals, organic and inorganic, here again China scores high in

terms of the exports to India and in terms of the specialty chemicals; despite the import

dependence on China, we are able to export our finished specialty chemicals. The situation is

the same in respect of pharmaceuticals as well. We are dependent on China for a number of

APIS and a number of intermediates.

Yet, we are able to have export of formulations to a much greater level than China has been

able to get. The trade balance of these classifications of the value chain is demonstrated here;

you have building blocks at a positive trade balance, specialty chemicals at the positive trade

balance, but intermediates and bulk chemicals being at the negative trade balance.

So, the key characteristics of the Indian specialty chemicals industry or in terms of strong

export presence. Strong growth potential in the domestic market, lower focus on R&D

activities,

the emergence of business focusing on sustainable chemistry. Sustainable

chemistry is one of the very intrinsic and essential features of the specialty chemical industry.

Whoever is able to provide green chemistry or sustainable chemistry is likely to find favor

with global buyers. When you look at the dispersion of the industry, you will find that the

western part of the country has got

the maximum concentration of specialty chemical

manufacturers, followed by the state of Gujarat and then you have got Madhya Pradesh and

Northern India having this level of specialty chemical presence. Industry clustering is also

one of the important aspects of study of the structure of an industry.

(Refer Slide Time: 23:10)

So, how do you do strategic positioning for the specialty chemical industry? Politically, the

Make in India program is going to attract lots of domestic and foreign investors into India.

The housing for all by 2022 scheme and its extensions will provide housing to the urban poor.

The entire infrastructure and construction expenditure is going to lead to higher demand for

specialty chemicals.

Introduction of real estate mutual fund and real estate investment trust will shift towards more

formal methods of construction, therefore, much better regulated and much better developed

raw material ingredients of it is specialty chemicals is going to be an important ingredient.

And the China Plus One with specialty chemicals serving as an alternate to Chinese chemical

products, is going to also influence the growth of this industry.

In terms of the economical aspects, the Indian market is the 7th largest by nominal GDP

third-largest by purchasing power parity, we do have low labor cost, which will encourage

foreign investments. The construction industry itself is a huge industry, it accounts for 80

percent of the total GDP, and we are expected to have even more impressive growth in the

construction industry.

Rising disposable incomes, low-interest rates, and increasing urbanization will also be the

factors which are going to give a feel to industries such as construction and real estate. In

terms of the social factors, increasing country population and increasing proportion of urban

population that is urbanization these will create demand for new infrastructure and increasing

penetration of ready-to-use mixed concretes, precast, and pretest concrete is going to lead to a

different way of construction.

And this will give flip to the specialty chemicals because they have got a big role in terms of

binding capability of these cements. Then in terms of technology, there is a technological

gap. Construction companies still use low-grade technology in the construction sector, and

this has led to low-value addition and low productivity, apart from substandard quality and

time overruns.

The business of ready-mix concrete is getting popular amongst construction companies.

Indian ready-mix concrete uses only 2 percent of the total cement production. So, you can

imagine the kind of scope which is there in the construction business for specialty chemicals.

The more the ready mix is used, the more the cost efficiency and safety of the construction

industry, and that would be a trigger for the growth of the specialty chemical industry.

(Refer Slide Time: 26:00)

So, how do you position this product, the drivers, the restraints, the opportunity, and the

challenge of the drop model? The drivers are increasing disposable income, growing R&D

activities for new product development, and favorable distribution channel policies; because

the distribution system is itself evolving from the traditional wholesaler, retailer kind of

distribution market, we are going to have strong CFAs and strong distributors, but a lot of

activity at the retail level to generate the demand.

Similarly, you are going to have channels such as modern trade and digital channels taking

over some of the aspects of traditional, distribution is going to be a driver. The restraints are

in terms of the largely unorganized market which still exists, therefore the cost advantage and

the dynamism they display. The product handling capabilities within the industrial system

does not seem to be foolproof.

There is a lot of leakage and wastage; the high cost for branded products is always compared

with the low cost of the unbranded substitutes and the inadequate infrastructures, be it the

road transport or, the ports or the intermodal logistics terminals; there is something more that

needs to be covered in terms of the futuristic development.

The opportunities are certainly there; growing population and need for residential properties,

rising demand for infrastructure with the new kinds of public buildings or dams and things

like that, and the government of India initiatives in respective of new factory constructions

PLA schemes, and so on. The challenge is to get stringent regulatory approvals in India as

well as abroad.

There are health and safety concerns at the end user level: what kind of chemicals are being

used? Are those chemicals going to be released into the environment as the products are used,

and is there any cancerous effect because of that and the disruption in supply chain. So, the

chemicals are expected to go through the same kind of testing rigor and assurance that a

typical pharmaceutical ingredient must go through.

(Refer Slide Time: 28:15)

So, what is the competitive strategy for growth? We have looked so far at the structure of the

industry and the various parameters that define the structure. There are 4 types of competitive

strategies that could be adopted by this industry. One cost plus; focus Indian market is still

very nascent at just 3 percent of the global market; there is a comparatively lower cost of

investment in India.

And when you focus on a single product or a single product cluster, you will be able to

implement cost advantage plus

focus advantage strategies. You can also achieve

differentiation plus focus you take one core product and develop, look for penetration into the

market, and create awareness and knowledge; this happens through differentiation and focus.

SRF is a classic example of focusing on one type of product and assuming a leadership

position in that product. Next, you have the differentiation strategy, where you create a blue

ocean strategy develop a large area for growth and co create the experience with the

customers and finally base yourself on innovation and R&D to be able to drive growth.

Finally, cost-less differentiation become a global player leverage low-cost operating strategy,

scale up the operations provided the demand exists then provide differentiated competitive

solutions to the customers.

(Refer Slide Time: 29:47)

So, the value creation vision for the specialty chemical industry is as follows in terms of 3

main blocks of the value chain: the first R&D you got to start with product innovation and

then product development. Production includes the procurement of the actual production and

packaging, and there again there is scope for value creation and; later on distribution comes

and then after sales comes.

So, for product innovation in R&D you need to have budgets which are internationally

competitive. Indian companies tend to spend around 1 percent of their budgets on R and D

expenditures. However, for a specialty chemical industry to be globally competitive, you

need adequate budgets of the range of 8 to 10 percent of revenue.

The procurement is also very important, procurement of concentrated bulk chemicals and the

play on economies of scale that is if you are a high-scale specialty chemical manufacturer,

you would be able to get better pricing and also assured supply from the concentrated bulk

chemicals.

Production efficacy in terms of the final product suiting local conditions is another important

consideration; the specialty chemicals have to be packaged well; they should be weatherproof

and they should be leak-proof; they should be visually appealing, and they should be able to

handle the rough handling that happens in multimodal transport or in cross border transport.

Therefore, branding, a strong distribution network, and awareness initiatives are very much

required for good transportation practices in this product range. After-sales service is

important because these are the resources that will bring additional sales for the company, so

resource availability must be ensured to meet customer needs and customer training.

(Refer Slide Time: 31:42)

Product market development will similarly be a staircase; it has to happen on multiple levels.

Technology adaptation happens in terms of investing in new technology to deliver cutting

edge products to the market, sustainability, society, and innovation appears through product

innovation focusing on these parameters.

Globalization is possible when global markets are targeted through multi-channel things; you

need not go in this starting phase directly to the US market and try to sell this product to all

the users. Instead, you may take up a channel that is going to be helpful in distribution; you

can have a strategic alliance with that partner.

And then, understand the market, start producing products that are relevant for the market and

at some point of time, decide that you would be standalone. And finally in order to reduce the

time of growing in a market and also to take advantage of the vacuum that is getting created.

Because of the China one policy, you may like to go in for strategic acquisition, and that

helps not only in terms of capturing the market gap but also in terms of providing access to

technology transfers and best operations practices of the companies that are acquired or

aliased within the developed world.

(Refer Slide Time: 33:08)

So, what are the specific features of product market development? Technology rules the roost

the chemical has to lead to better properties, cohesive strength, flexibility, thermal stability,

etcetera. It should be capable of multi-usage hardwood carpeting and linoleum, etcetera in the

past we used to have paints which are dedicated for wooden surfaces, paints which are

dedicated for steel surfaces, and so on.

Today, we have paints that can be used for all the types of surfaces. Sustainability society and

innovation you should have systems which will take away the pain points of chemical

production and distribution, you need to have moisture curable systems, you should have

environmental resistance built into the chemicals' technical specification profile, against

ultraviolet, corrosion salt water, and you name them it should be happening because,

specialty chemical is the first protective coat that is applied over the product then product

innovation. Going global Indian market itself is huge. Should we move into the global market

yes, we must, because when you move into the global market, you try to understand you get

to understand the latest technological trends that are prevailing in that market and that helps

you diversify and upgrade your product range and meet the requirements seamlessly.

Strategic alliances are very much required in this industry, it is no time to rediscover the

wheel as far as the specialty chemical industry is concerned. You got to follow the global

players; however, you should put your stamp of contribution through strategic alliances as

well as various partnership strategies.

As a matter of interest top 5 players in the industry contribute to the market share of about 90

percent in the Indian adhesives and sealants market. There could be disruptions from the

market because whenever a company is in the exalted position of high market share there is

always going to be competition from the lower end of the market. So, one should keep an eye

on the disruptions for the market.

Investment in technology is the key because global players are operating in this industry, and

they have huge deep pockets. Then, a clever way of expanding the business while the going is

good or going is the tough comes from your ability to have strategic alliances, acquisitions,

technology partnerships, and things like that. That is where the automobile industry has

succeeded in terms of continuously accessing technology.

To the level that it is almost self-sufficient Euros 6 engine is supposed to be very challenging

to develop, therefore, Ashok Leyland has given the task to a reputed design studio outside.

However, the company also has developed it is own Euro 6 range and that has provided great

strength to the company in navigating through the adverse market conditions of the COVID

times as also the new demand escalation times or the current times.

So, the ability to do strategic alliances, acquisitions, technology partnerships, and so on, is

vital to the profile of strategies undertaking product market development in the specialty

chemical industry.

(Refer Slide Time: 36:33)

So, what kind of strategic alliances could exist? You could have a consortium, you could have

a technology partnership which is the most well-known licensing, you could have private

brand agreements, you could have a sales partnership, you could have multi channel

partnership and you could have an acquisition partnership.

In terms of operations, you can have a manufacturing partnership vendor buyer relationship,

you can have joint venture and finally, you can have a venture. Each of these aspects will be

discussed by me in subsequent slides but suffice it to say that this entire value chain of

specialty chemical manufacture can be segmented.

And the right alliances and right market arrangements, as well as right

integration

arrangements, can be found based on a deep study of the industry structure as well as the

supportive industry structures. The pros of alliances are very clear it helped the company

move rapidly into larger and more attractive markets.

They ensure better efficiency, there is complementarity, and synergy, and finally, there is

faster strategy implementation; the cons are that you have got to share the profits. If you look

at the previous model wherein you supply the product to a generic distributor and then price it

at cost plus, plus being very marginal 10 percent.

And then the overseas marketer applies his or her own generic distribution margin and then

shares the profit, the profit obviously is lower than what you would have got had you put

your foot in that market. However, there are other qualitative aspects which are involved in

making those decisions, which is why I said that business development in the specialty

chemical industry or any other industry is as much an art as a science.

Ultimately, the chemistry you have with the management of that company as well as the

promoter of that company, is going to be the clinching factor in terms of the viability and

workability of strategic alliances.

(Refer Slide Time: 38:38)

Once you decide to be in the specialty chemical industry with the kind of network support

that is going to be in place, you require integrated communication on a B 2 B basis. Because

most of the specialty chemicals go directly to the businesses, be it the core distributorship or

the OMCs for the biodiesels, the shift is essentially in terms of integrated communication.

The product-based integrated communication must be specification-driven, must highlight

superior performance and it must be customer-focused. The specialty chemical industry has

the opportunity to co-create the use of these chemicals in various industrial activities. The

second one would be pricing value pricing; it is not the lowest cost pricing. But it is value

pricing, and the third is the place where you would like to keep your products.

The distribution network the direct sales at the warehouses are the key places where you keep

your products and finally, promotion is in terms of educating the customers in terms of their

requirements, educating the customer in terms of the capabilities of the firm and providing

product samples which they could try out. The group believed to the extent they were

experienced, that this kind of model will work very well with the specialty chemical industry

as well.

(Refer Slide Time: 40:00)

Suppose your product is a B2C product that is a specialty chemical which serves day-to-day

pharmaceuticals or a specialty chemical which supports writing pens, which supports the

typewriting work, which supports academic activity in general. You will find that the level

and the intensity of collaboration competition are directly and overwhelmingly different.

So, at a product level, you will have a diverse product portfolio based on the strong R and D

that you have. The price will of course, be based on penetration pricing, but better quality

will be offered along with the lower price compared to small players. In terms of the place,

the traditional distribution system will continue to be in the mainstay wholesaler's retailers on

one hand and hypermarkets and supermarkets on the other.

So, this kind of differentiation is something which is going to help the people who have

started the industry but are not able to scale it up to global standards; nothing is lost. These

are the 4 features that are available to explore and take the right landings. Then promotion

comprises Ad campaigns, social media, brand awareness and similar marketing applications

that companies adopt.

(Refer Slide Time: 41:22)

To get at pricing you need to understand what is being contributed by what product? So, in

the specialty chemical industry and in the subs segment of that industry namely protective

floor systems, you have got star products such as covering products which use PU

technology, you have cash cows which use Epoxy Technology, you have question marks

which use combinations of polyurea and polyurethane technology.

And those products could be the blockbusters for the Indian specialty chemical manufacturers

and those who lead the sales and marketing effort for those kinds of products are likely to be

the winners in the career competition. And of course, you have an underdog which is hybrid

technology which carries and makes a mishmash of all the available technologies all the

available marketing approaches and really does not know where you really need to go in

terms of handling that product.

(Refer Slide Time: 42:22)

There are key factors of growth for the Indian specialty chemical industry, we must be happy

about the likely growth potential. The first low cost of manufacturing and availability of

skilled labor, there is no doubt that the world looks at India as a preferred manufacturing

destination. They were looking at India only as an its hub; today it extends to manufacturing

destination approach, and tomorrow it could extend to the R and D activities.

Low cost of manufacturing, cheap labor wage rates, and abundant availability of skilled

manpower or the assets which need to be protected and projected as we move forward.

Second, a strong intellectual property rights IPR protection policy. From filing process

returns and challenging product patents in the 1970 India has come a long way for a unified

patent regime, which includes product patents, process patents, and various other patents.

And also, it has got a very clear demarcation of responsibilities of the site, the quality, and the

consultants and the site has to take care of the quality production at the site level. And the

enablers for this are many, and those enablers have to be understood when we come to the

enablers; the Indian specialty chemical industry also enjoys strong global acceptance as much

as 50 percent of the production is exported.

It is exported as ingredients for flavors, fragrances, and nutraceuticals, and the track record of

producing world-quality output speaks for itself. But there are issues: there is a shortage of

feedstock supply which is dominated by China. So, the majority of India's petrochemical

building blocks or channelized towards bulk polymers, the other end user segments must

predominantly rely upon inputs for the feedback and feed forward.

Chinese domination in feedstocks like epichlohydrin for exports MDI for curing agents which

is a disruptive force is to be taken into account. And if these shortages and the nomination

impact or not addressed Indian chemical industry despite the local investments, may find

itself at the end of the journey.

Therefore, it is important that business development focuses as much on external demand as

it focuses on internal demand and of course together with the causative features. The majority

of the players are subscale in this segment which is one of the reasons why the companies

which I have mentioned here have all the possibilities to become number 5 growth makers,

provided they play their game well.

Then you have gaps in the enforcement of environmental regulations; Indian environmental

regulations have always been stricter than China; however, the enforcement varies depending

on the location and the size of the enterprise. For example, the regulation relating to the

release of toxic fumes and, diesel fumes and chemistry fumes to market has got its own

deleterious implications on the product that you have.

(Refer Slide Time: 45:40)

So, in summary, we can think of 6 factors: there is a clear shift in customer preference, and

customers are increasingly getting interested in environment-friendly and socially responsible

products and services. Chemical products by definition, are not environmentally friendly and

socially responsible; they affect the environment together and they are also challenging in

terms of workplace safety.

However, most companies are now becoming conscious of health and hygiene and are

demanding milder and safer products with pure ingredients because this is where the trend of

the world is also going. Second, increasing per capita production, the current per capita

consumption of chemical products is just one-tenth of the global average. Therefore, there is

a huge potential to double this consumption.

And this offers great scale up and scope of opportunities for the specialty chemical industry.

Digitalization and Industry 4.0 are another thrust area we can have horizontal and vertical

integration, a new definition of operations management, participation in reverse actions and

digital auctions, and the creation of new digital models overall.

Chemical companies are implementing digitization initiatives and tools in their supply chains,

demand planning and pricing strategies. Whenever you deal with a fluid, be it oil or

chemicals, there is the potential for leakage. That leakage could be due to the nature of

devices used transportation used or by deliberate fraudulent activities.

Digitization helps in providing things like digital seals and ensuring seamless transportation

from the ship to the factory and from the factories to the various distribution end points.

There is also going to be an increase in M and A and investment-related activity.

As you would have seen this is a scale-intensive industry the greater the scale, you have the

greater the specialization you have, and you would have greater capability to operate in the

global markets. Therefore, there are enough downstream value-added opportunities which

could increase the strength of the Indian specialty chemical industry.

Therefore, companies must look at the realignment of portfolios from time to time and these

would be drivers for strong M and A and investment activities of all the factors. China Plus

One strategy is the most important one. Consolidation in the industry, environmental reforms

and tightening finance is changing the face of China's chemical industry.

This has resulted in uncertainty for companies dependent on the country for their supply of

raw materials; 24 percent from the United States is dependent on this. Similarly, from

Western Europe a huge demand position exists, and Japan has got a huge demand position.

Almost 70 to 75 percent of global chemical demand from the developed world can be catered

to by India which means that there would be unimaginable increase the scope scale and

extent of the specialty chemical industry. In addition, COVID 19 kinds of outbreaks have

different impacts in different areas of the world.

Right now, China is locking down on its industrial production and slowing down on it is

economic growth because of it is 0 COVID policies and that has implications for India in

terms of ramping up its production. And that must not be linked only to the pandemic, but it

should be linked to the sustainable factor advantages and production advantages of the Indian

specialty chemical industry and that alone will attract investments into this and in doing so

we must protect our low-cost labor image.

Then we have innovation and sustainability which could offer significant capability.

Companies are going to invest in India not merely because of the labor cost arbitrage or just

as hedging option against China. But essentially for taking the product portfolio into the

future, that is where R and D and innovation on the part of the Indian specialty chemical

industry would come up.

We have to move up the value chain from low innovation products to high innovation

products, while incorporating the considerations of sustainability and green chemistry and

this will lead to continuous improvement in products, time to time breakthrough disruptions

in the products and greater manufacturing process controls as well as safety controls.

And this once it happens through interactive customer management and suppliers across the

value chains would provide a strong foundation for the specialty chemical industry of India to

take up the next journey. Therefore, anyone who is doing strategy has to understand the

overall environmental factors, the structural dynamics of the industry, and the strategic

positioning that is possible for different types of companies, and the drivers for the strategy to

be a sustainable strategy and the approach to achieve competitive advantage of such

strategies. Therefore, the strategies have to understand the industry in all it is breadth and

depth and make the decisions on the requirements on the growth and that is how you make

your decisions, towards vertical integration, towards expansion towards diversification in

capital intensive and technology intensive industries.

Such as specialty chemicals, where we have still a huge headroom to grow based on the

unmet Indian demand as well as the global demand. Thank you. With this we come to the end

of the lecture, and I look forward to seeing you in the next class. The next class will focus on

2 industrial segments, and it will demonstrate further how product clusters lead to market

clusters.

It also will demonstrate through the other example how the entire value chain of an industry,

even in a high technology industry, would lead to market presence across different customer

groups and across different value chain compartments. So, those 2 case studies also will be of

interest to you.

Thank you.

