Business Development: From Start to Scale
Prof. C Bhaktavatsala Rao
Department of Management Studies
Indian Institute of Technology Madras

Week - 04
Market and Competitor Analysis
Lecture - 16
Industry, Market and Business

Hi, friends. Welcome to the NPTEL course Business Development: From Start to Scale. We

are in week 4 with the theme of Market and Competitor Analysis. In this lecture, the 16th in

the series, we focus on the topics of industry, market, and business.

(Refer Slide Time: 00:28)

Industries serve markets through the products that the companies in the industry provide.

Markets enable the industries through the demand markets provide for the individual

companies in the industry. Thus, industries work to grow the markets, while the markets

stimulate or constrain industries depending upon whether the industry is faced with

increasing demand or decreasing demand.

A market is an aggregation of individuals or organisations. They are interested and willing to

buy a product or a service to obtain benefits that will fulfil a particular want or need, and

these individuals or organisations have the resources to buy. So,

there are three, four

underlying concepts here.

First, any market is an aggregation of individuals or organisations, and these individuals and

organisations are interested in a particular product or a service. And they are also willing to

buy the product or service, paying certain consideration usually cash and the intention of

doing that

is to secure some benefits that will fulfil a particular want or need of the

individuals or organisations.

And the individuals or organisations must have the resources to buy to qualify as a working

market. Generally, markets are composed of bias. Depending upon how a market is defined,

one market may be served by several industries. It is important to remember this, one market

can be served by several industries.

For example, a market may be made up of college students, but they may be patronizing, or

they may be requiring goods from different industries. It could be the pen industry, the

textbook industry, the stationery industry, the apparel industry, the accessories industry, the

movie industry and so on. So, one market can be served by many industries. These are

interesting principles that you must remember.

To compare in contrast an industry is a group of companies that conduct the same or similar

businesses. Meaning also that the industry is characterized by same or similar products,

services and activities; that is how we have the renewable energy industry, which is how we

have the apparel industry, which is how we have the paint industry, which is how we have the

cement industry as examples.

All of these are products which are similar to each other, in some cases the same as others.

So, companies which manufacture the same or similar products are grouped together as an

industry. Typically, an industry would serve many markets. Just as a single market is served

by many industries, a single industry would also serve many markets, and this depends upon

how the markets are defined.

For example, the power industry serves all the industries as well as all infrastructure. That is

the electricity producing industry serves all the industries in the manufacturing space, in the

service space as well as infrastructure and that covers residential to working. Rarely do we

have an industry that will serve and grow based on only one market.

Even, a product as simple as energy meter industry serves not only the oil industry, but also

the gas industry, but also the fluids industry. Good strategists and marketers understand and

appreciate the above differences as well as overlaps. And, by appreciating this, the strategies

can optimize the industry market mix for aggressive business development, for thoughtful

business development.

(Refer Slide Time: 04:41)

Let us look at how the industry definition is impacting the types of markets and buyer

clusters. Markets which fulfill a single purpose are typically made up of several buyer

clusters with varied needs. We have also seen in the previous lecture that mobility is one

macro market that moves people or goods.

But, when we look at mobility, there is personal mobility, there is business mobility, there is

off road mobility, there is family mobility, there is group mobility, there is standby mobility

and various other mobility needs. An industry develops groups of products or services to

meet the requirements of several buyer clusters.

In this case, the automobile industry develops certain groups of products to serve each of

these needs. Personal mobility is served by passenger cars at one end and two-wheelers and

three-wheelers at the other end. The family mobility is served by the three-wheelers as well

as the passenger cars and also smaller buses.

Off road mobility is served by off road 4 by 4 vehicles and in some cases vehicles which

serve construction purposes. Group mobility is served by bigger buses, business mobility is

served by products which are designed for moving officers and staff from place to place.

Standby mobility is something which enables owners to keep their vehicles on standby,

should they require the movement of people.

An industry typically,

therefore, develops groups of products or services to meet

the

requirements of several buyer clusters even within one macro market that is defined.

(Refer Slide Time: 06:29)

When you have so many domains, when you have so many types of industries, so many types

of markets, so many types of businesses; we need to find out the attractive opportunities.

There are 7 domains in which industries and markets interact with each other. Here is a

template that has been derived from the work by John Mullins.

There are two types of domains; market domains and industry domains, this is what we have

seen. And this could occur at micro level and macro level. At the macro level, you determine

the market attractiveness, similarly at the macro level you look at the industry attractiveness.

At the micro level, you determine the target segment benefits and attractiveness and at the

industry level you look at the sustainable advantage. And all of these things are catered to by

the team domains and the team domains are nothing but organisational domains. They

comprise missions, aspirations, and propensity for risk, to quote a few. They also have the

ability to execute on key success factors.

They also are connected up and down the hierarchy as well as across the value chain. So,

when you look at the industry and within the industry, the companies at the core and when

you have the market domains that are served by the industry, the industry domains that are

attractive and when we look at the segmentation based on micro level and macro level

analysis; you understand where you should aim at.

You should aim at target segmenting; you should also aim at sustainable advantage. And you

should be able to understand the attractiveness of individual markets and the attractiveness of

the core industry. The attractiveness of the industry needs to be assessed based on a number

of factors as considered earlier.

(Refer Slide Time: 08:29)

What are the key market influences for any company? Markets are influenced by macro

environments that shape the breadth and depth of the market and determine its evolution.

There are 6 types of environmental variables that influence the market. The first is the

demographic environment, age profile, income patterns, gender diversity, ethnicity etcetera.

These are characteristics of the population of a nation. Then, there is the socio-cultural

environment, the social values, mores and relationships, historical and religious influences,

corporate social responsibility etcetera. There is a specific and economic environment, GDP,

per capita income, savings, price indices, consumer spending, tax levels and so on.

There is a regulatory environment which keeps the nation open for industries and markets,

duties and taxes are levied on goods and services, and incentives are provided for better

industrial production. There are also negative lists to ensure that the interests of the country

are protected.

For example, recently the export of sugar has been banned, and the export of wheat products

has been banned to enable the prices to cool off in the domestic market to ensure adequate

supply of these commodity products. Then, there is the technological environment, extent and

competitiveness of local technologies, dependence on external technologies etcetera.

Natural environment such as natural resource endowments, the land area, the seasonality of

rains, natural vagaries, environmental concerns etcetera. Africa for example, is very well

endowed in terms of these natural environmental factors which makes it a great producer of

agricultural products. Parts of our India are also capable of producing strong agricultural

products.

Kerala is known for its coconut farming. Similarly, certain other regions are known for their

rice and wheat crops. The dispersion of these factors within an economy within a society

determines how the demand environment shapes up in the country. Certain goods and

services enjoy a certain breadth and depth of markets based on a above such environments.

For example, nations which have harsh cold climates have high demand for protective

clothing and heating equipment. And those countries which have got high hot, humid

environments have a high demand for air conditioners and other cooling equipment. So, the

development of goods and services is also dependent on the environmental factors that are

existent in a country.

(Refer Slide Time: 11:37)

We have talked about industry forces and market evolution in the previous lectures. I have

also illustrated how the five forces theory gets expressed in terms of various industrial

settings. Here, I wish to take one more industry, the Indian telecommunication industry and

that industry has proved its metal during the COVID-19 time, when the whole country has to

move into a virtual state of communication with the individual constituents as well as with

the individual businesses.

India needed to connect with within itself and also with the globe through the

telecommunication network. It was such an industry that its importance was not recognized

adequately until COVID-19 hit us. But why did the industry come to the kind of tough pass it

came to in 2020? The reason is that the five forces operated in them in then in the industry in

a very peculiar, but stringent manner.

So, if you look at industry rivalry, there was very high rivalry within the telecommunication

industry,

leading to low tariffs and customer migration towards low tariffs of service

providers. And, it has come that way because the new entrant decided to take away the share

of the existing incumbents by offering very attractive plans.

The second is that as technology comes in lumps, that is 2G, 3G, 4G and 5G and also with

high sunk cost, pricing is oft resorted to option to secure and retain share, that is without

pricing capability or without pricing action, a new entrant would find it difficult to secure

market share in quick time; therefore, that is used as a tool. And, when that happens there is

going to be high level of industry rivalry.

The second threat of new entrants. Many smaller players entered in the 1990s and 2000s into

the Indian telecommunication industry without understanding the kind of capital investments

that are required to keep them up to date in technologies. The one giant player who entered in

the 2010s, that is Reliance Jio, was very conscious of what technology could do and what

investments could do in terms of dominating the industry.

As a result of the peculiar features of many smaller players fragmenting the market and one

giant player trying to consolidate the market, the industry faced low viability, technological

obsolescence's of smaller players and the mega force of one aggressive player. Supplier

power, the government controlled the sale of spectrum because it is a natural resource and is

owned by the government and the government did that

through auctions and telecom

manufacturers were also few.

Therefore, the supplier power was inexorably high both from the point of view of the

spectrum and from the point of view of telecom gear. This increased supplier power pushed

up investment requirements and enhanced the unviability of operations. The auctions required

the companies to bid increasingly higher amounts. At the same time, as we have seen earlier,

the pricing pressures were such that the prices were uneconomical for the elevated investment

levels.

Therefore, there was viability that was forced upon the industry. Buyer power, the Indian

buyers were preferably disposed towards mobile phone usage, but they demonstrated huge

elasticity of demand; whoever offered the lowest prices got the best demand migration. Low

prices resulted in a huge expansion of the Indian telecom market without a doubt, more

importantly the bottom of

the pyramid population took to cellular phone usage

overwhelmingly.

Next threat of substitutes, as the technology moved from 2G to 4G and data started coming in

a big way, companies which did not keep pace with the technological leaps withered,

Reliance Communication as an example. Some players became less competitive; Vodaphone,

Idea for example. As a result of their technological obduracy and financial insufficiency, they

did too little too late.

The Indian telecom model underlines the impact of competitive forces on industry structure

and sustainability; this is an example. You take any other industry, you will find that factors

such as these operate.

(Refer Slide Time: 16:27)

Market opportunity analysis: we need to understand the market opportunity in great depth

along with the environmental influences and industry factors being analyzed in parallel.

There are five aspects of market opportunity analysis. First, the need in the market, whether

the market is moving towards progress and how the quality of life would depend upon new

products and services, which is the overall framework for the definition of market.

Second, specific industry products and customer benefits. In this evolving quality of life

syndrome, what are the offerings that will provide the customers with the benefits that society

is seeking and what are the solutions which have lived their day and no longer are useful.

Then the third factor is the growth potential. The target segment is likely to grow, offering

scope for the same or similar products. Adjacencies, the currently targeted segment offers

scope to enter other segments, which may be termed as adjacencies, which is if you are in the

watch industry, you can enter the smartwatch industry or smart wearable industry.

If you are in the cement industry, you can enter into the readymade cement category. If you

are in the cement industry, you can also get into the batching industry; you can also forward

integrate into the construction industry. So, there are several ways in which adjacencies could

occur. A construction behemoth may like to get into the cement industry because it provides a

strategic advantage, and then there would be readjustments.

At some point of time, the market and the industry will go in for structural transformation

based on products of new technology. If 3D printing were to become very popular, at least the

low-cost affordable housing segment will go in for 3D printed houses. Similarly, if 3D

printing is successful

in terms of biological parts, the biomedical market will undergo

significant change.

The implants will be manufactured through 3D printing; hot walls may be manufactured

through 3D printing, and so on. So, readjustment of the known industry market configuration

will occur when new technologies come into play. The creation of a market based on a felt

need and a provided product takes place based on the combination of many factors.

(Refer Slide Time: 18:57)

How do we understand the market? The market may be singular for a company, but the

market is multi-layered. Always the market that is available for a company is far larger than

the company would recognize. There is a potential market; if you talk about apparel, the

entire population of the country is the potential market.

If you talk about a fountain pen,

the entire school-going, college-going and working

population as well as people at home, constitute the potential market for that. If you talk

about passenger car, the potential market is not only the passenger car users, but also all the

people including two-wheeler users, and three-wheeler users who would like to travel.

Therefore, the potential market is far-far larger than we imagine.

The potential market can be defined as a set of customers who have an interest in a market

offer, which is a product or a service, but do not have a compelling level of interest or

sufficient access and our income to buy that product. Take the example of stock markets, the

entire market of financially savvy individuals is a market that could play in the stock market.

But not all people have the resources to do that; not all people will have the interest to do

that. Therefore, people who play in the stock market are far smaller in number than the total

number of financially savvy people. So, that is the definition of the potential market.

The next is the available market; within the potential market certain market will be available

for a company to be exploited, that is a set of customers who have not only a compelling

interest in a market offer, but also have sufficient access and income; that is the available

market. Although there is an available market, the company may not want to pursue the entire

available market.

Therefore, a concept of target market arises, that is that part of the qualified available market

which the company decides to pursue. For a pharmaceutical company in the west, all the

Western countries could be a market to pursue. But countries such as Russia and Sayes may

not be the countries to pursue.

Similarly, countries such as Thailand and Malaysia may also not be the countries to pursue

for different reasons of scale economics. Therefore, the target market could well be very

much smaller than the available market. Even though there is a target market, it is not

necessary that the company is operating in the entire target market, it could operate just in the

secured market.

The secured market is nothing but the set of customers who are buying the company's product

or service. Therefore, the market availability is a subset of the potential market, the target

market is a subset of the available market, and the secured market is just a fraction of the

target market.

Reaching and penetrating the potential market fully is well-nigh impossible for any company,

regardless of its resources. However, every company which has its core secured market

should always try to expand its market coverage to the target market and then the available

market. And the target market itself could be said to be in an expanding mode as the company

enhances its resources and its ambitions, that is how you try to understand the market.

(Refer Slide Time: 22:37)

In respect of Hospira, the global generics major where I worked; this concept has been put

into use very effectively by the company. Hospira had a secured market, which is the United

States of America, the home turf; 100 plus generic drug filings were made in the United

States of America and the company was having approximately 3-billion-dollar turnover from

that market.

Now, the company wanted to expand its business, and it did it through three concentric

circles. The first concentric circles which encapsulated the secured market was the target

market. All countries except some that were deliberately excluded that is the countries such

as Russia and CAS and certain Middle East countries and so on.

And, in those countries, all the products that were already existent in the US have been

moved in terms of fresh dossiers. Therefore, the 100 plus generic drug filings in the USA

gave rise to a 1000 plus dossiers which were filed in the EU, Middle East, Latin America,

Canada and ANZ.

And, in that the available market of around 150 plus countries were taken up for importation

of the generic drugs, and they have the interest and the purchasing power and that was

targeted. But, the potential market remains as the full set of 195 countries in the world, which

the company did not want to consider.

Therefore, the potential market of 195 countries was drilled down to 150 plus countries that

allow for the importation of Hospira type of drugs and within that a target market was chosen

and the dossiers were filed. This market outreach strategy has helped the company enhance

the turnover from 3 billion dollars to 4 billion dollars per annum. So, a 33 percent increase in

sales turnover was achieved by redefining its market.

(Refer Slide Time: 24:46)

Let us look at the structural typology of markets. The universe of markets has two types of

markets essentially. One,

the government markets and two,

the civilian markets. The

government markets comprise defense, paramilitary, and police services. And, these markets

have budgeted funds, bits and auctions,

field trials, multitier approvals, guarantees,

performance warranties, and so on.

The purchase method itself is very peculiar to government markets. Then, we have public

sector enterprises where there are economic considerations of buying the best product by the

most desirable product. But also, there is public policy that you must buy a particular

percentage from small and medium enterprises. There are also structured procurement and

regulated purchase preferences.

Then we also have government agencies and institutions. These have socio-economic

considerations, which are determined by public policy and legislative measures. Auctions,

bids, partnerships, and Swiss challenges characterize how these government agencies and

institutions work.

Then, there are civilian markets; while the governments, through their purchases, also serve

the civilian markets, civilian markets are independent, and they exist and grow by

themselves. In that we have three types of classifications. One the private sector enterprises

where they buy anything and everything with the view of quality optimization, profit

maximisation, service maximisation, preferred vendor policies, procurement bids, cost

savings and so on; then, you have social organisations; MSME support, green products,

government grants and support

low margins social motto. These characteristics are

exemplifying social organisations and the real general demand is from individuals and

families. Lifestyle needs and wants, mandatory and discretionary expenditures, savings, and

borrowings.

Emotional and esteem needs and various other factors determine how individuals and

families purchase. Therefore, there are different types of markets, and all these markets are

important for a firm. Because each market

is exemplified by its typical and unique

characteristics, we need to have strategic marketing approaches or business development

approaches that are very specific to each of the markets.

You cannot try to sell soap in the same manner in individual markets as well as in the

governmental markets. There have to be different kinds of considerations; in individual

markets, the units' volumes are singularly low per person but collectively huge. Whereas, in

the government markets, the individual volumes are in terms of boxes, but the number of

boxes could be low.

So, there are differences, and the companies have to formulate their marketing, sales, and

supply chain policies to meet the individual market requirements.

(Refer Slide Time: 27:56)

Then, we have the pyramid of markets. Markets can be classified in terms of physical

volume, purchasing power and, therefore, the market power index. However, it is not always

the top of the pyramid that creates wealth or, drives market progress or even ensures the

national strength. So, what are the characteristics of these three pyramids?

The top of the pyramid typically enables high unit prices; it is typically also low in unit

volumes, and it is low in the market power index. It provides some kind of pole position but

not necessarily a driving position for the demand equation in the country. The second is the

middle of the pyramid.

It is mid in unit price, mid in unit volumes, and mid in market power index. It is in a way, the

backbone of viable business that is conducted by most firms. Then, we have the bottom of the

pyramid, which is low in unit price, high in unit volumes and high in market power index. If

a company is able to manage and master the art of producing quality products at low,

affordable prices, it will capture the bottom of the pyramid.

By the sheer scale, it can gain cash reserves that can be reinvested in different types of

products. Some of them could be in the middle of the pyramid and top of the pyramid

markets. India reaching the top 5 of the global economic order reflects the index of market

power at the BoP and the MoP levels.

(Refer Slide Time: 29:35)

Are the markets specific? Yes, markets are specific. Markets are the prime drivers of

economic prosperity and at times, even collapse. They are also the prime drivers of social

mobility, but at the same time also of isolation. It is, therefore, necessary for marketers to

develop strategies that are contextually appropriate for different markets.

A market is a place where two people or two organisations or a person in an organisation

meet to engage in an economic transaction and those transactions need not necessarily have

legal tender. A market transaction may involve goods, services, information, currency or any

combination of these that pass from one party to another.

In short markets are arenas which buyers and sellers can gather and interact. There are

physical markets, there are virtual markets and now there are hybrid markets as well. All the

traditional markets that existed about which I talked about in an earlier lecture constitute the

physical markets.

They have grown over the last several centuries from traditional mandis to modern malls.

Virtual markets are the new age internet-based markets that commenced and grew

exponentially over the last two decades. The Amazons of the world, the Flipkarts of the

world and the digital source which various companies have.

Hybrid markets are those markets which are futuristic. They combine the physical and virtual

markets, and they will be powered by digital technologies AI and AR, VR and MR. There

can be no virtual markets without the support of physical infrastructure, and the physical

infrastructure cannot gain the kind of reach without virtual markets to support

them.

Therefore, the supply and delivery chain are interlinking the virtual markets as well as the

physical markets, apart from that the characteristics of the markets themselves could be

highly varied. There are many specialized markets that have evolved over the last several

years. There are markets which are financial in nature, these are called financial markets;

these are stock markets, bond markets, forex markets, crypto markets etcetera.

(Refer Slide Time: 31:35)

Then, you have commodity markets, bullion markets that is gold market, metals markets,

energy markets, Agri markets. Then, there are auction markets that are livestock markets,

antiquities markets, used goods markets. We are all familiar with housing markets; new

housing markets, but we have got newer varieties in that rates, foreclosed house markets and

so on.

There are shadow markets, which are not formal markets but serve as semi-formal markets;

they are unregulated or less regulated markets in formal markets. There are also markets

which are not desirable such as black markets, these are illegal markets. Undocumented

markets, tax-evading markets and markets which try to skim consumer surplus by making use

of operations under the radar and breeding the rules, those are black markets.

By understanding each of the markets and the submarkets, strategists and marketers create

new successful businesses. A company may have developed as high feature high performance

product; however, by making it available in very low quantities at very high prices,

unwittingly the company may create a black pocket for that product and that would be

inequal to the interests of the society and the economy; therefore, a holistic understanding of

all the markets is necessary for a company to be able to have good business development

marketing and approach.

(Refer Slide Time: 33:38)

Some examples of specific markets. Zerodha is a financial market or stock market,

Brookfield is an Indian real estate trust, it comes into the housing market area, and Coinbase

is a crypto market. HDFC Asset Management Company, again a financial thing. Gift is a

financial, IEX energy market, Christie's auctioning, Agri marketplace for social marketing

and agricultural marketing, Lendingkart

financial market.;

the way the markets and

institutions work together reflects how economic activities can progress in alignment at times

in synergy as well.

(Refer Slide Time: 34:22)

Governments create markets, at a completely different level mega markets are created by

nations and governments coming together to ensure complete integration as one single union.

This has given rise to greater economic activity in the union. Let us talk about the European

Union. It's very first origins have been as the European Economic Community established in

1957, under the Treaty of Rome.

And it was the first economic integration of that nature adopted not only in Europe but

elsewhere in the world too. Then, the European Common Market came up in 1965. This was

governed by the Treaty of Brussels and the idea was to enable complete free movement of

goods, capital services and people within the European common market.

Then, came in 1993 the full-fledged European Union, it was under the Maastricht Treaty. It

was a single nation that got formed with a purpose broader than economic. So, they created a

nation of nations so to Say, several cooperative organisations of Europe that were formed in

stages over the decades got merged into one common market and one union eventually, we

also have closer to our country SAARC.

Though the separation of Britain from the European Union under Brexit shook the union for a

while, the EU withstood the separation. There are other blocks such as SAARC that support

market formation though not to the same level of economic, administrative and cultural

integration as the European Union achieved.

(Refer Slide Time: 36:02)

I would also talk about three marketing approaches, and we must seek synergy within these

three approaches. Proactively ahead of competitor actions, in response to competitor actions

or in steady state, companies should adopt appropriate marketing approaches. We take

marketing actions when a competitor does something. So, you are reactive.

You tend to take marketing actions to be proactive and preempt competition or you take

marketing actions, because all of us need to take marketing actions within an industry. There

are three approaches and three contexts. Within these three ways strategic marketing provides

sustainable advantage. Let us look at

these three categories of transaction marketing,

opportunity marketing and strategic marketing.

In transaction marketing every sales call, click or footfall should generate sales, because the

whole idea is to create sales out of the transaction out of the client company meeting. Then,

there is the opportunity marketing that is the company is ever watchful of what is happening

in the marketplace.

So, if the competitors' shelves are dry or if the competitor has temporary production problems

or if the seasonality is having strong demand, those opportunities will be seized by the

company and a full-fledged marketing activity will be launched to maximize sales. This is

opportunity marketing; these opportunities may not last forever.

In fact, festival-linked, seasonality-linked activities and opportunities last for only a few

weeks or months. Then, the third is strategic marketing that is you create brand value

consistently and achieve sustainable customer mindset. Just as you think of products newly

introduced such as Zincovit or Acton in the pharmaceutical space or you think of an Alto or a

Mahindra affordable house as your main recall, brand value is the one which is aiding that

recall.

So, strategic marketing tries to create brand value that is sustainable over a period of time

establishes the link between the product and the brand. Xerox is a brand, while it is also a

product. So, when you want to have a photocopying machine, you think of Xerox as a brand.

Similarly, when you think of a laptop, you think of HP as the brand that signifies the product.

The second factor is one of levers; what are the levers to make the marketing activity

effective? For transaction marketing it is sales force and promotion of the product, for

opportunity marketing, comparative promotion and also migration of competitors' products

and also the early mover's advantage when there are seasonality impacts. Then, the strategic

marketing there is focused more on consumer feedback, and consumer loyalty and less focus

on pushed sales.

And the idea is to provide better products and services and experiences for the customers.

What is the level of involvement of the CEO? The CEO is rarely involved in day-to-day

affairs of transaction marketing. He just monitors the overall revenues and profits in respect

of opportunity marketing to the extent of gaining an advantage over the competitors and

therefore, an interest in the competitive game that is getting played out.

With respect of strategic marketing to the extent of positioning products and services for long

term sustainability are rebuilding brands; am I getting a new brand besides the brands that

exist. Involvement of other functions, which is functions which are supportive in the value

chain, to what extent they are involved in each of these three areas.

All functions are involved in routine fulfillment of internal transactions for the transaction

marketing. In respect of opportunity marketing, they do all that they can to rise up to the

occasion and provide support for either the offensive moves or for the opportunity moves

against the competition.

In respect of strategic marketing, all the functions will try to optimize the total value check;

they provide differentiation, they provide higher quality, they provide good communication

for sustainable competitive advantage in the marketplace. What is the linkage with strategy?

Transaction marketing is linked by the sales budget, opportunity marketing is linked by the

marketing and market share strategy. Strategic marketing is linked by business strategy and

corporate strategy. And what is the measurement matrix? Per capita sales, per person per

month for transaction marketing; growth rate in sales increase in market share.

And, for strategic marketing, it is return on investment because the investment does not see

an immediate return. Brands do not get built overnight; it takes time to build brands. It this is

not to say that one type of marketing is better than the other, all the three types of marketing

are required by a company,

they must coexist. Transaction marketing together with

opportunity marketing with strategic marketing leads to sustainable competitive advantage.

(Refer Slide Time: 41:34)

Let us look at also the stages of the life cycle. The strategist does not look at the sales profile

or the brand profile of the product in isolation. The strategist believes that every product will

go through a life cycle of its own. The industry sales go through a kind of subdued

introduction phase.

Then there will be a rapid growth phase, then there would be a very long maturity phase and

potentially there could be a decline phase as well with time. This strategic view suggests that

an industry or the market passes through certain phases or stages, introduction, growth,

maturity and decline. The pace of demand growth and the level of demand are determined by

the product life cycle.

(Refer Slide Time: 42:27)

What are the influences on the product life cycle? At one level strategy influences, but

strategy response to the environment as well. So, the most impactful determinant of product

life cycle movement is the overall environment with all the variables that I have outlined

earlier. There are three firm-specific factors which a company can utilize to change the shape

of the S curve which is the product life cycle curve.

These are technology, pricing and execution, these can help the companies stay at high levels

of product life cycle for as long a time as possible. Structural analysis of the industries helps

us determine the evolution of industries and demand growth. This evolution typically moves

from an initial structure to a potential structure, which is what the product life cycle teaches

us in terms of strategy development.

(Refer Slide Time: 43:25)

So, when you want to look at this evolutionary process from a structural point of view, there

are several considerations and there are several determining factors. At an overall market

level

there are certain drivers of growth which have been discussed in part earlier.

Demographics is one, trends in the needs of buyer population are the other, change in the

relative position of substitutes is the third thing.

Changes in the position of complementary products, penetration of the customer group,

changes in the buyer's segment served, buyer's learning, reduction of uncertainty, diffusion of

proprietary knowledge and government policies. Let us say the government decides to

provide a huge amount of dearness allowance to its employees on the eve of the festival.

Suddenly the buyers would move to the higher income group, at least for the festival season.

And the seasonality of the festival demand would take a further leap into the higher range.

So, it is a market-based driver of growth that has happened. There are firm level drivers of

growth, which is strategic definition. How you have anticipated this and formulated your

strategy.

What is the kind of product innovation you are looking at, the kind of process innovation, the

marketing innovation, leveraging changes in adjacent industries, responding to changes in the

industry, scale and scope capabilities, changes in cost and price structures, the aspirational

culture of the organisation, leadership orientation?

Market-based drivers of growth are immediate, medium-term and long-term. Firm level of

firm level drivers of growth for the short term are dependent on the infrastructure already

created. And the ways in which the infrastructure is being utilized through successful sales

and marketing operational and delivery strategies.

But most of the drivers of growth at the firm level are based on creating infrastructure for the

future so that can support market-based drivers of growth every year. So, if you have firm

level drivers of growth which provides infrastructure for a defined time period, each year of

the time period can be used to leverage the market-based drivers of growth.

This framework integrates firm-level factors, and it helps modify judgments and forecasts

into structural readings for the industry provide strategic guidance for the firm, which is how

the evolutionary process works. With this we come to the end of this lecture. I will be seeing

you in the next lecture.

Thank you very much for your attention.

