Business Development: From Start to Scale
Prof. C Bhaktavatsala Rao
Department of Management Studies
Indian Institute of Technology Madras

Week - 04
Market and Competitor Analysis
Lecture - 19
Demand Forecasting

Hi friends, welcome to the NPTEL course Business Development: From Start to Scale; we

are in week 4 with the theme of Market and Competitive Analysis. In this lecture, the 19th in

the series, we discuss the very important topic of Demand Forecasting.

(Refer Slide Time: 00:27)

Understanding the demand is at the core of business development. One can look at 90 types

of demand measurement as I have indicated in this example, that shows how complex

demand forecasting process can be. Let us look at three types of time levels: short run,

medium run, and long run.

Different companies define these in different ways. Some companies will consider 1 year as

the short run, and some 1 to 2 years. Some companies will look at 2 to 3 years as medium run

and some companies look at 2 to 3 years as the medium run, and some look at three years and

beyond as the long run.

So, whatever that be, every industry and every company has its own understanding and

perception of what these time spans are, but at the product level, there could be several

factors that may vary depending upon the time frame chosen; it could be at the lowest level

the product item sale moving to product form sale, product line sale company sale, industry

sale and all sales together.

And the regions which are covered in the demand forecasting exercise could be the customer

itself, the territory, the region, the USA, and the world. The more global a company is and the

more diverse the product range is, the greater will be the number of market measurements.

This still needs to contend with the fact that further segmentation can be achieved or required

based on customer characteristics, and this is not unusual; this is very much usual for every

type of company.

(Refer Slide Time: 02:10)

So, demand estimation, which is a complex process, is the core of business development. At

times, even sophisticated economic models may not predict the unraveling of demand. Ola

Electric had one lakh orders in 24 hours when it announced the digital launch of its scooter.

But the question is how long the steady state will remain?

There is a semiconductor shortage even now, two and a half years after this semiconductor

shortage first popped up. Millions of products have been affected in terms of loss sales,

automobiles to white goods were impacted by the semiconductor shortage. Can we predict

when the semiconductor shortage? Will really go away; it was difficult at least 1 year ago.

China's power crisis, as well as the COVID lockdowns, steep power cuts and outages

industrial disruptions, factory production is roiled. Can we predict when the items will ease?

India's Demat Account Surge: fourteen point million demat accounts were opened in the

period 2020-21. These were 3 times the numbers opened in the previous financial year, and

no one could predict this level of interest in the stock markets of India.

So,

there are four types of demand: surge demand, the one like demat account surge,

cascading demand, depending upon how the economy impacts a particular product and

therefore,

the sub-products and the components how they are affected is the cascading

demand aspect. Snowballing demand that is something is favored, and the demand for it

keeps on moving up the kind of one-year waiting period you saw for Rakia (Refer Time:

03:57) product is a snowballing demand. Everybody thought that it offered features for

greater than the price at which it was marketed; therefore, there was a snowballing demand

disrupted demand that is when the demand gets disrupted by something which is completely

out of the blue.

Availability of statistics, therefore, is no assurance that there would be predictability arising

from the data; there is a need to integrate quantitative forecasting which is, of course,

essential with qualitative forecasting as well as scenario planning to arrive at proper demand

estimation.

(Refer Slide Time: 04:33)

What are the approaches that are available for demand estimation? It is actually a progressive

approach. We have to first look at the macroeconomic forecast that is the gross domestic

product that would be occurring in the economy, and that must take into account several

independent variables such as inflation, employment, savings, incomes, consumer spending,

foreign trade, interest rates, business investments, government expenditures, foreign direct

investments, sectoral outputs.

Then you have the industry forecast, which is industrial growth for the growth inputs for the

specific industry, growth inputs for the related industries, growth inputs for the vendor

industries, growth inputs for the channel industries, and supply chain factors; then comes the

company forecast the demand growth.

Past sales, buyer's intentions, buyer's purchasing power, sales force forecasts, expert opinions,

market research, and market tests these are not comprehensive factors; these are suggestive

factors. In contemporary times, several agencies provide economic forecasts; these range

from governmental agencies to multilateral agencies and private consultants to rating

agencies.

However, firms may choose to rely on their own judgments; industry forecasts and company

sales forecasts must, however, be customized forecasts.

(Refer Slide Time: 06:04)

What are the demand estimation approaches? Basically, there are two types of approaches for

estimating demand: one is top-down: In this approach, a central department which is

well-qualified and well-equipped takes responsibility for demand forecasting, and it goes

through these three phases of demand forecasting which I mentioned earlier that is economic

forecast, industry forecast and therefore, the company demand forecast; this approach is

typically data and model driven. In the bottom-up approach, the ownership for demand

forecasting is diffused to the operating levels. This approach is both quantitative and

qualitative; both these approaches have their relevance with pros and cons.

(Refer Slide Time: 06:46)

What are the pros and cons of the top-down approach? It is managed by a department which

is dedicated to quantitative techniques, economic understanding, and understanding of

various industry linkages. In fact, that department looks at the whole economy and the

industry, including the firm as a system, and they are able to provide the demand estimations

in that background.

They also may be a centralized demand planning department within one function, such as

marketing and that may be undertaking a similar task; this is centrally driven and, hence, very

responsive to the management. It has access to macro-level data from multiple sources, and

therefore, modeling is facilitated.

It is appropriate for gross demand estimations, but the negatives are that there would be a bias

because of the close proximity with the top management. Also, it is not so sharp for

segmental estimations. The risk of autocorrelation and false correlation of data sets is very

much a risk in this kind of approach.

Smaller companies are well advised to subscribe to syndicated studies of the macroeconomic

environment and macro-industrial environment bigger companies are well advised to have

in-house strengths in economic and industrial interpretation, if not detailed analysis.

(Refer Slide Time: 08:14)

Let us look at the pros and cons of the bottom-up approach. The bottom-up approach is

managed hierarchically, with operating level estimations bubbling up through the successive

layers of discussion and authentication; often, the sales force develops the first building

blocks typically in an organization you have frontline sales offices.

They have area sales managers,

that

is a cluster of sales officers is reporting in any

organization to the area sales manager and a few area sales managers report to the regional

sales manager and, a few regional sales managers report to the general manager, and three or

four general managers depending upon the zones that exist in the country's sales network

would report to the sales head.

And the sales requirements, as well as the sales projections are bubbled up from the bottom.

Philosophically,

this approach is organizationally inclusive, and hence it has greater

ownership. Proximity of the forecasts just

to the ground-level customer leads to more

accurate forecasts, it will be effective in projecting detailed segmental and sub-segmental

demand.

If you are planning the sale of an FMCG product in an area, then you would know how the

demand would vary between different neighborhoods of that area, and to that extent, the

bottom approach could be helpful. But again,

it

is likely to be biased by day-to-day

happenings, it is unlikely that the forecasters at the ground level have the big picture in mind.

They would be unable to perceive multiple data points and emerging trends, they will favor

incrementalism rather than breakthrough thinking. So, these are the disadvantages of the

bottom-up approach: it is business as usual with some incrementalism that happens, and they

tend to react far more dangerously to the current disruptions.

And most exuberantly to the excitements that happen in the marketplace with, none of these

is good for the demand forecasting process. A bottom-up approach helps the company focus

on the current evolutionary trends and thus enables a better fit between the production and

marketing mix of the organization. So, there is space for a bottom-up approach, and there is

also a space for top-down approach.

(Refer Slide Time: 10:41)

How do you juggle between these two approaches is the critical factor of demand estimation

in a balanced way. There are 6 popular demand forecasting techniques that can be used by

companies individually or in select combinations.

The first is a statistical technique; the second is the observation method; third is a survey or

focus groups; the fourth is the analogy; fifth is judgment and the sixth is experimental test

method. Each method has its advantages as well as disadvantages and these will be discussed.

Certainly, combinations of several of these six techniques will help in getting at the right type

of demand estimation.

(Refer Slide Time: 11:22)

Let us look at the statistical techniques; without doubt, these are popular methodologies to

estimate demand because they offer data-driven estimates. They use past history and multiple

regression or time series analysis. Very useful when the demand triggers, positive or negative,

are well known.

The negative about these kinds of techniques is that they cannot adequately capture future

triggers, more so disruptors. The result will be only as good as the data and the tenability of

the assumptions that are built into the model. The key lies in choosing the right number and

the right type of independent variables that can predict the dependent variable.

(Refer Slide Time: 12:05)

An example of demand forecasting for the flexi fuel policy is the blending of ethanol and

petrol for lower emissions. Let us explore how a model can be constructed focusing on the

passenger car industry.

So, the sugar mills, which are the major producers of ethanol, have this problem on hand; the

government has announced a 30 percent blend of ethanol in the petrol fuel for the passenger

car industry. What would be the demand requirement of the passenger car industry out of the

sugar mills? That is the question.

So,

the equation will

look at

the following independent variables: ethanol production

capacity, number of cars on the road, average passenger kilometers traveled per car, flexi fuel

dispensing stations, pricing of petrol, and expected savings per passenger kilometer. You have

certain assumptions for each of these independent variables.

And you create an equation to relate these independent variables to the dependent variable

that is the demand. There could also be other factors, such as different technology levels of

different internal combustions as well. So, the complexity of the model can go up based on

the data you are able to (Refer Time: 13:19)

(Refer Slide Time: 13:20)

The second method is the observation method. In this, we build focus based on the

observations of real-time consumer behavior in the product market spaces of interest to the

company. You look at a retail store scenario, you go to a retail store you look at how the

products are flying off the shelf and based on the promotion.

Let us say more products are taken by the consumers, or in spite of the promotion, the

products are not taken by the consumers; you get a feel for the brand power as well as the

demand for that particular kind of product. Now, this is observational, and it cannot be

universal; it has to be based on certain sampling.

On the positive side observation is very relevant because it is based on what people exactly

do in the marketplace at the point of sale. With artificial intelligence, it is not necessary that

people should be physically present. Artificial intelligence can help extend this to every

customer who moves into the store and also govern the customer's thoughts and behavior.

Thirdly, it is faster and cheaper than other forms of real-time studies. The negatives are the

consumer behaviors in real time can be structured, random, or even misleading; just some

curiosity may make you behave in a particular manner towards a product that does not mean

that the customer is interested in buying the product or is influenced by the product.

The technique may not be applicable to newly introduced products; some people may be

interested, and some people may be disinterested; the technique will be more useful when the

product market space is well defined. Observation will soon be a powerful technique with the

integration of sensors and artificial intelligence with data analytics.

Observation, I believe, is going to be the trend of the future in demand distribution, and it is

going to be very powerful as we move along.

(Refer Slide Time: 15:28)

Examples of observation by design or default building of a demand profile through

observation has been part of the marketing toolkit; when a movie trailer is screened, it is an

observation of people's interest in that movie, when product samples are given to doctors and

when they are administered to the patient it is an indication of the demand profile.

The clinical trials are an observation of the therapeutic efficacy of a pharmaceutical product.

The retail purchasing power which we talked about is an indicator of the latent demand in the

marketplace. Trade exhibitions for new products, the way people look at various products,

and the way they come to various stalls are indicative of the company's brand equity as well

as the product brand equity.

Targeted leaks on new products over the internet and the kind of views they generate, the

likes they generate, or observational outcomes of such activity. Process observations that is

queuing, line balancing, and crowding around a product all of these things are observations

related to consumer demand.

Building your design that is allowing people to assemble their own product and feel happy

about it is an indication of what kind of product customers would like to have. Pre-orders is

another example of observation; observation could be time and cost-consuming, but it would

work very well in conjunction with other techniques.

(Refer Slide Time: 16:58)

Then, we have surveys or focus groups. This method relies on choosing an appropriate

microcosm of the potential market universe to build demand trends. Appropriate when the

product concept

is well defined and can be presented for feedback to customers. The

technique can be used for eliciting the opinion of a firm's sales force as well.

Has the collateral advantage of enhancing customer connection. There can be a significant

gap even a chasm, between what people say and what people actually do that is the negative

other two negatives are the respondents may not be knowledgeable, especially on new

concepts.

The firm itself may fail in getting out a product close to the concept that is voted in, but these

kinds of surveys or focus groups are extensively used by startups when they come up with

disruptive products, and they need some kind of specialist group to say whether these

products are under a kind of hypothesis which can be validated by them.

Also, when the product is supported by a well-distributed sales force who can reach out to the

customers who actually use those products, it will be helpful to have this technique deployed.

(Refer Slide Time: 18:14)

Given below is an example of surveys or focus groups. The focus group survey needs a

setting that has the most appropriate customer flow related to the product or service. You will

recall that when I spoke about design thinking, I talked about having a space where the

design thinking activity can be conducted.

Therefore, you have to select the product market space; you have to select the focus group

venue to interact, seek feedback, and check the representativeness through flow analysis. In

this case we have got a KUV 100 of Mahindra and Mahindra being displayed in a mall in

Chennai, and the executives of the company conducted the focus survey based on the

customer interactions.

But what is to be noted here is that focus group surveys could give out information to

competitors as well in terms of market signaling. So, it's a very transparent process which can

lead to results other than what have been envisaged. Analogy is another important method; it

relies on gaining insights from similar products and services of the firm or its competitors.

(Refer Slide Time: 19:15)

Analogy is very useful when the product and competitor universe is indeed diverse; it is also

useful when product prototypes for new products are not yet available; both successes and

failures offer relevant analogies to work on the negative side any new product will not be an

exact clone of the previous product. In fact, it may be a generation ahead and it would have

features that have never been there in the earlier product.

So, the analogy cannot exactly represent the future trend; it could be misleading as the

consumers' past experiences need not necessarily be indicators of future evolution, and

finally, it could be very judgmental and subjective. For established companies analogies must

lead to reflection and circumspection; apart from mindful demand profiling, it is something

which is a very meditative style of demand forecasting.

The observations that come out of analogy cannot be just like that acceptance; they have to be

mulled upon, they have to be discussed and deliberated, and an appropriate sustainable

analogy established as a result of the thought process.

(Refer Slide Time: 20:35)

There are several examples of analogy working out very well as predictors of market demand

in a host of sectors. Music streaming, Apple had Napster, which worked earlier. Spotify had

Apple as a result, music streaming was the perfect example of analogy. Sleeper buses first,

we had the aircraft seats, which provided comfortable sleeping posture even in the sitting

space.

Then we had the railway sleepers; therefore, sleeper buses had these analogies to work on.

Autonomous mobility we have guided transport even in the factory floors we have

fly-by-wire aircraft, and this has given the impetus to autonomous mobility as being a

sustainable product.

In the foods and beverages space, we had products of different flavours and products of

different recipes, but the way the consumers responded to those different flavours and recipes

gives confidence to the buried company that more such products can be utilized a classic

example is Denon.

It experimented with Greek Yogurt in the beginning, and then it started mixing different kinds

of fruits and nutritious ingredients. The kind of good response the products got encouraged

the company to keep on coming up with the newer variants, and what has been achieved by

Denon has been seen by others as an analogy for their own activities.

Then we had COVID pill acceptance. Tamiflu was for influenza, and there have also been

other oral anti-retroviral medications. Although in this case, analogy has been supported by

scientific evaluation but given also that the scientific evaluation has not been 100 percent

complete or correct.

An analogy has been used by the doctors in prescribing these as somewhat off-level

recommendations, and then we have from Ashok Leyland an LCV called Bada Dost. It has

been developed based on the way its earlier LCV called Dost took off, and Dost took off very

well; they thought that an L Bada Dost also will be taking off very well, and the company

also had the analogy of Tata Ace.

If Tata Ace could create a huge product stream and product space for Tata motors, the

company thought, why will not Dost and Bada Dost create one for the company? So, a

conceptual analogy is useful in estimating the demand profile for a new product that could

make a similar thematic impact; however, launches may not always be accompanied by

analogical specs and service conditions, limiting the applicability of analogy as a tool for

demand projection, it is very useful adjunct.

(Refer Slide Time: 23:22)

Then, we have a concept called test marketing. Test marketing is the concept of testing out a

fully finished product to assess demand and finetune positioning. It comes the closest to

determining the likeliest demand for the final product because the product that is going to be

offered is available in full form, style, and performance considerations.

It eliminates unanticipated bugs and brings out special requirements in actual usage by

customers. Test marketing goes one step further to demand estimation. It is not just demand

estimation or the satisfaction levels of the customers with reference to the product; it also

brings out any mistakes or any bugs that are resident in the product and helps the company to

fine-tune the product to meet the requirements or at least eliminate the most important bugs.

But the negatives are. So, what it is too late to take up demand-related redevelopment and

supply course corrections,

test marketing may come up with a host of suggestions or

observations, but that is not going to be any solace for the company because the company has

already rolled out an entire product launch plan and it is costly and time-consuming and is

open to competitors stalking and competitors developing certain anti postures on the product

with the advent of digital marketing and AR VR.

Some of the test marketing activities can be carried out much in advance and at a much lower

cost, and this is the advantage of test marketing in this new digital world.

(Refer Slide Time: 24:58)

What are the examples of test marketing? From floor shift to paddle shift that is the car

instead of having the gear shift at the floor level could have the paddle shift at the steering

wheel level.

And this has been test-marketed and companies have found out the best way to do that. From

straw punch to flexi spout pouch that has been another example of test marketing, from bottle

shampoo to sachet shampoo that has been an example of test marketing.

SpaceX Civilian Flight itself is a test marketing of a concept that is going to be commercial

very soon. From vials and syringes to prefilled syringes, has been test marketed and found

acceptable to the patients as well as the doctors, and from bottle spirit to alcohol swabs again

has been test marked and found acceptable.

An FMCG company desiring to switch over to stand-up pouches from pillow pouches that is,

pillow pouches are those ones which are flexible even after filling of the product and

therefore, they lie horizontally. On the other hand, stand up pouches are pouches which have

certain rigidity, so that they can stand up on this shelf space.

And typically, stand-up pouches have a cap through which the product can be flowed out; it

could be for the detergent liquid, it could be for the edible oil, and things which are fluidic in

nature. And the disadvantage if one may so say so of the stand-up pouches is that they would

have higher costly impact on this consumer.

The pillow pouches can be packed, but it looks not so elegant, and the price advantage may

give also the commodity feel for the product the way it is displayed and if the packaging is

really good, a stand-up pouch really stands out whereas, the pillow pouch looks lost in the

crowd that it is in and this needs to be test marketed.

And the only way you can do the test marketing and assessment of demand is by displaying

these two types of products and see how the consumer responds to the two types of the

products.

(Refer Slide Time: 27:12)

Then there is also an adoption process because demand could be there, but how the demand

will be adopted in terms of the products that are available and what are the influences for

that? For demand to materialize, people should accept and adopt the new product or service.

Some people adopt a product early on, while some people adopt the product very late.

Some people are innovative; we call them tech geeks; for example, they adopt some new

smartphones and new smart variables; however, many people do not adopt so easily, and

some may never adopt as well. The shorter the time frame in the market adoption process the

faster would be the demand realization.

So, there are several types of adopters which a company must be cognizant of; such adopters

could be innovators they could be early adopters, they could be an early majority of the

customer group, there could be a late majority that could be happening later, and there could

be just laggards these all are types of adopters that could exist in the marketplace.

Companies have started realizing that there is a difference between demand being there, but

and the demand getting adopted. So, companies have started putting on the retail floors

people called promoters. Their job is to promote the product, although a retail mall is open to

every manufacturer, and these are multi-brand retail shops, and everything is uniformly

displayed.

It is left to the individual company to post a person who would explain the features of the

product and why the demand perception of the consumer has must be translated into actual

purchase. So, the time dimension of the market adoption process is accelerated by having the

promoters on the retail mall flow.

The time dimension reflects the rate at which people in the target group, which is those

people who are ultimately adapting, move through these five stages in the adoption process.

Innovators embrace the concept immediately, and early adopters also take the product, but

after little research on the product, the early majority look at the people who are already

embracing the product and then join into a kind of cluster of customers.

The late majority these are the skeptical people; they are price conscious probably they want

to understand what value is getting generated and then only they would take the product, and

finally,

laggards they just are not

interested in moving with the new stream. Strategic

marketing or business development must aim at shortening the time span as much as possible.

The shorter the adoption process the better it is to have the demand realized.

(Refer Slide Time: 30:14)

So, let us look at the fast-forward adoption examples that we have. We are having today

examples of products or services facing phase out due to either new disruptive technologies

or strong regulatory mandates. In fact, there is some kind of belief in the leading Smartphone

makers that the average life of a Smartphone in the hands of the millennial generation is only

8 months.

After 8 months another phone which has been launched will be taken up with eagerness and

that would be having another life which means that there is an inbuilt bias in the marketplace

towards technology, towards change and towards the lifestyle display that comes out of

possessing a new generation of devices.

So, let us look at some of the examples: we had blackberry-type pure qwerty phones; they

were overtaken by touch phones, and touch sensitivity began increasing across the

generations; that is one example. We had ubiquitous sensors and sensors have had the fastest

adoption rates amongst any industrial or electronic product; every appliance in the house is

getting to be sensor covered, and the house itself is getting sensor covered, that is the fastest

adoption that has taken place.

This adoption at the first level has occurred at the industry level or at the design level. People

started appreciating the importance of the internet of Things, the sensor environment and

developing products which had that kind of ubiquitous capability, but once the products

became available, customers started adopting this kind of sensory mechanism.

Similarly, android from Microsoft exited Windows mobile OS after several years of

experimentation with Nokia. Microsoft Duo 2 mobile phone came with Google Android OS.

It is an adoption of a technology that is different, but whether the customers have adopted the

dual type of foldable phone from Microsoft is still a question mark.

The adoption by the customers of the Samsung fold is far higher than the adoption by the

customers of the Microsoft Duo 2. Microsoft's previous track record with the hardware could

have been one factor or the reluctance of Microsoft to aggressively advertise it, waiting for

any other inputs coming from the actual usage could be the other factor, but this is one

example of adoption intended to be fast forward is not getting fast-forwarded as much as it

should be.

Then we have the BS VI fuel emission standard; the government of India has said that there

should be a direct jump BS IV emission standards to BS VI emission standards, and it was

simultaneous with other clean energy initiatives as well. So, it is a leap into the future of

technology, and there are no two ways about it, and it is legally mandated. So, it was a

fast-forward adoption.

But looking at the way these clean energy initiatives have been coming up, other companies

have been getting into the allied businesses, and there have been biodiesel manufacturers who

have come into the play. Companies which are in the edible oil industry started using the

edible oil basis for developing biodiesel product lines.

Sugar mills have ramped up their ethanol manufacturing capability, and the oil companies

themselves are putting up stand-alone ethanol manufacturing refineries. So, this is one

example of fast-forward adoption in one line having a ripple effect across the product lines.

Then we have the Norway EV Mandate, it says that all passenger cars sold by 2025 should be

0 emission cars, and Norway leads the world in EV adoption this is a mandate which has

been eagerly adopted by the country and its citizens. Then there is the renewable energy in

India.

It has been a concept brought forward by one or two companies and also supported by the

government of India. Adani and Ambani have led the way more, particularly Adani. Now, all

public sector refiners and energy producers are entering the renewable energy space.

So, people are adopting this kind of technological platform and this kind of market change

that is going to occur. So, the rate of adoption is a function of the real net benefits a new

product offers with ease and assurance this; adoption, unless it is mandated, will not happen

automatically and will not occur in an accelerated fashion.

The rate of adoption will be a function of the tangible, experienceable, real net benefits that a

new product offers with ease and assurance at

times; mandated withdrawal of older

generation technologies may fast forward adoption and hence achieve demand buildup.

If there is a mandate that all the vehicles which are over 15 years of use or life shall be

scrapped there would be an adoption of the newer vehicles at a faster pace than would

otherwise be possible. So, there are several dimensions to the fast-forward adoption theory.

(Refer Slide Time: 35:49)

When we are doing this kind of forecasting, we need to be looking at some cautions and

caveats. Holistic forecasting is a methodology that benefits from strong statistical science and

good experiential judgment. However, forecasting is susceptible to certain biases and errors,

forecasting must be deployed with caution.

There is a tendency to decide based on delusional optimism or exuberance or misplaced

pessimism; when you look at a product, or when you look at a product performing in the

marketplace, you get excited, and when people get excited, the company's representatives

also get excited, and they would feel that there is an optimism and that could be leading to

wrong judgments of the demand situation.

Similarly, when a product is advertised or when a product is placed on the shelf, there may

not be immediate acceptance and that could lead to misplaced pessimism. Even in the movie

situation, there are cases where the first-day shows may not be adequately patronized, but

word of mouth would ensure that subsequent shows are well-occupied.

So, there is a tendency which cannot be easily predicted; therefore, there is a caveat related to

this. Second, anchoring bias always exists, and this anchoring bias in the demand forecasting

system and also on the part of the demand forecasters is based on the previous events of deep

impact or recent events of halo.

Every demand forecaster would have either benefited from the demand forecasting exercise

or deeply disappointed with the demand forecasting exercise that would provide some kind of

exuberance or disappointment or caution in estimating the demand, that is another thing that

is human bias.

The third is the misinterpretation of demand caused by capacity constraints, channel stuffing,

income effects, financing etcetera. We may say that the demand for passenger cars has (Refer

Time: 38:00) in 2021 because of the economic situation, but probably the demand has not

because of the economic situation, but because of the semiconductor shortages.

After Diwali, people may expect a high level of sales, but the sales could be just half of what

has been achieved in the Diwali season; that is not necessarily because of a lack of demand in

the post-Diwali period for the product it is because this channel stuffing that has taken place

if there is a recession the income effects would have an impact in terms of the demand.

If the loan rates go up and, therefore, the EMI rates or EMI levels go up, there would be an

impact on the real estate demand. So, these are all the ways in which certain other factors

distort the demand and biases from actual demand estimation. Then, there are personal and

professional concerns related to the business impact of forecasts as well.

People believe that forecasts tie us down into a particular way of planning for the future. So,

either you over-invest or under-invest, and given that the demand forecasting process has so

many caveats, which we have considered in the past slides as well as in this slide, people tend

to take it into account, but not completely rely on forecasting.

Then we also have process failures related to qualitative methods; we saw earlier that the

quantitative models need not always be perfect; there could be some erroneous assumptions

built in or there could be the wrong equation that has been developed.

In the qualitative methods there could be process failures that are related to qualitative

methods, which is gaps in communication. I have left the yellow rectangle free for you to

think of any other cautions and caveats that could arise in forecasting based on your

experience as a forecasters of demand in real life or in your professional life.

(Refer Slide Time: 40:02)

So, what are the keys to good demand forecasting? There are certain dos and don'ts that can

be adopted to utilize forecasting as a viable tool for understanding the likely demand. First,

we should understand the purpose. We should not use demand forecasting as a one-time

extended budgeting tool.

Many people wake up to the need for demand forecasting, and the time for developing the

budget for the next year comes up, and after that, it is just kept in the document that is not the

way to look at the demand forecasting; it has to be a dynamic exercise. Second, we have to

recognize the targets what the firm wants to achieve and forecast that is what could happen

for the industry.

And the firm are two different things; we have to be perspicacious enough to distinguish

between these two targets versus forecasts. The second time we should not do forecast

without adequate time for data collection or fieldwork, then you would be negotiating against

yourself in arriving at a demand forecast.

What you need to do is to keep revising forecasts as more comprehensive data becomes

available. The industry operates on a certain time principle; you cannot keep on eternally

waiting for things to happen; a company has to plan its future in good time. So, if the

company has to take 2 months, let the company take 2 months and then release the budget.

But as more data comes to the (Refer Time: 41:32) those must be used to keep revising the

forecast and, therefore, keep changing the strategy as well as the tactics. The third model does

not rely on just one methodology. We have seen several interesting methodologies that are

relevant for demand forecasting.

Triangulate the outcomes based on the use of multiple methodologies, both quantitative and

qualitative. The forecast must make sense in the context of the inputs which you get from the

company's personnel from the competitors' behavior and so on. Look at the measurement do

not take random views on the quality of the forecast as expert opinions.

Do not think that any opinion expressed is the ultimate subject matter expert opinion it need

not necessarily be so. You should focus more on forecast errors to continuously refine

forecasting errors; you have to look at that a forecasting process, however machine-driven or

however machine dependent it is, ultimately a human process. Therefore, there would be an

inaccuracy that is there in the forecasting process.

So, your drive should not be to get just an as accurate a forecast as possible because it is a

perfect scenario which you may not reach to what you should do is to keep on reducing the

Arial levels in the forecasting so that your accuracy gets enhanced.

So, you should understand how the assumptions are impacting in a not so correct way the

forecast there is another thing which you need to keep in mind then the risk we should not

ignore the need for integrating the probability of something happening the risk of happening

are not happening and the sensitivity of the outcome to whatever are the other factors that

would be impacting the demand.

And therefore, when a forecast is challenging to simulate, scenarios there would not be one

single forecast; there would be many forecasts what happens if the geopolitical situation

suddenly becomes very nice, what happens if the US fed stops increasing the rates, what

happens if the government announces stringent measures to rain in the fiscal deficit? What

happens if suddenly the banks decide that we need to inject far more liquidity into the

system? So, these are all the factors which will require scenario planning rather than one

singular demand forecasting. Then, look at the process itself do not think of forecasting as an

optional exercise; think of forecasting as one of the integral parts of the thinking of the

company towards the future.

So, forecasting has to be one of the components of the DNA in fact it must be the key DNA

strand of the company's process. So, prediction of future with a fair degree of plausibility is

not easy that we must realize fundamentally it is tough. It is complex, even if you have tools

and techniques.

Therefore, while taking demand forecast as a guidepost, firms should shape their products

and services and use strategic marketing to shape demand and the whole journal of demand

forecasting, which I have outlined here, provides a lot of perspectives as well as tools and

techniques, with all the pros and cons for you to choose the appropriate set of demand

forecasting techniques and that would help you become a better business strategist as well as

a better business development professional. So, with this, I come to the end of this lecture. I

hope to see you in the next lecture.

Thank you very much.

