Business Development: From Start to Scale
Prof. C Bhaktavatsala Rao
Department of Management Studies
Indian Institute of Technology Madras

Week - 04
Market and Competitor Analysis
Lecture - 20
Competitor Analysis

Hi friends, welcome to the NPTEL course Business Development: From Start to Scale. We

are in week 4 with the theme of Market and Competitor Analysis. In this lecture, the 20th in

the series, we discuss Competitor Analysis.

(Refer Slide Time: 00:26)

If you will recall, I have discussed competitor analysis in a different context, and that context

was in terms of understanding the factors by which we can judge the competitors'

performance as well as our own company's performance. In this lecture, I will talk about the

competitor landscape and looking at competitors from a different perspective.

Many times, firms limit their view of competition even within the industry to the players who

they believe are in the same league. Some other companies think that the role models of the

industry are the competitors, but neither view is wholly correct. Firms need to have a broader

view of competition and players that could chip away at their business.

Here is the summary of certain top-run, mid-run, and small-scale IT companies in India. So,

we have TCS, which has got a revenue of rupees 152497 crores and a market cap which is

more than 7 times that and a sales growth of 10.47 percent. Next in the line is Infosys,

followed by HCL and then Wipro; Cognizant is another leading company with a revenue of

30000 crore approximately, Tech Mahindra in 35119 crore, and L&T InfoTech at 10014

crores.

But if Mindtree is combined with that as per the latest amalgamation or acquisition, it will be

17000 plus crore. Mphasis has 8000 crore revenues, Hexaware at 5300, Info Edge at 1360,

and Happiest Mindset 773 represents the smaller companies. So, you can see three types of

companies: one the industry leader, the second emerging industry leaders, and third mid-tier

companies, which are there and having their own niches.

The above description and depiction do not comprehensive it also indicates how any industry

can be multi-tiered, but the point to note is that any company in any tier can offer competition

to the companies in the other tiers; that is the essence of understanding the competitor

landscape.

(Refer Slide Time: 02:44)

When you look at the IT services top 25 in 2021, it is heartening that India is the second

largest in the world in terms of the brand value of IT companies, and it is next only to the

USA. This speaks highly of the strides taken by the Indian IT industry over the last three

decades, migrating global demand to itself. So, the brand value by country is the graphic on

the left side.

United States has a brand value of 47 percent, whereas India has a brand value of 29 percent.

In a distant third, we have Japan at 9 percent and France at 9 percent again. And the number

of brands by country has been quite interesting in respect of the United States and India. The

United States has 8 leading brands, and India has as many as 6 leading brands. In terms of

individual brands featuring in the global top 25 therefore, India is well positioned both by

value as well as by the number.

(Refer Slide Time: 03:47)

Similarly, in respect of brand rating, Indian companies are in the AAA minus or AA plus

category, which reflects positively on the capabilities of the Indian IT sector and the brand

values also compare favorably with those of established international chains. I would believe

that the time is not far off when the top Indian IT companies will occupy 3 of the top 5 slots

by brand value.

(Refer Slide Time: 04:19)

In terms of IT services, the top 25 Accenture and IBM from the USA occupy the top two

slots, but much of their operating leverage comes from their huge Indian operations. The

ability of Indian IT companies to compete globally is well-proven. So, let us look at the

position that has been given as per the table; Accenture is in number 1, position previous

position was also number 1 in 2020.

The brand value is 26000 crores. The previous brand value was 25000 crores, and it is rated

triple-A. IBM is rated triple-A minus with a brand value of 16000 crores in 2021. Infosys is

at 8400, but it is considered the bellwether of the Indian IT industry; TCS is much larger in

terms of brand value and also in terms of sales value as we have seen earlier, and it is in

triple-A minus category.

So, Infosys and TCS are in the triple-A minus category, whereas HCL is in the AA plus

category. Wipro is also in the AA plus category, comparing very favorably with the other

competitors. How does this happen? This happens when strategic management of the

companies is focused on establishing strong client relationships, which enhances repeat

orders, which provides big deals and ensures brand visibility in the global IT services space.

Underlying the business development approach in such companies is the service as the lever

for long-standing relationships to power IT successes.

(Refer Slide Time: 06:08)

So, in this background, we need to look at competitor analysis in a different light; we have

seen that for the firm, the best of market analysis and demand forecasting as discussed so far,

as well as market segmentation and consumer analysis that will be discussed later, we will

come to a naught if the competitors are not analysed properly.

There are two or three themes here; one, strategic marketing or business development,

constitutes a subset of competitive strategy. It involves positioning the business in the minds

of the marketplace customers. So,

if the value of the capabilities that the firm has or

distinguished from its competitors, then only the competitive advantage accrues.

Sustainable competitive advantage is achieved on a strategic plane; it is a way a firm

positions itself by offering superior products, services, and features relative to competition.

The tactical and operational metrics are in terms of revenues, profits and market share. So, for

every company, there must be an aspiration which is supported by competencies and leading

to execution.

Just as a firm needs a framework for analyzing industry structure and its own strategy it also

needs a framework for analyzing its competitors. This is the point I have made in the

previous lecture. Please judge yourself as the company by the same standards as well as the

same factors of analysis as you judge the competitor with. So, smugglers or alarm about

competition must be replaced by systematic analysis.

(Refer Slide Time: 07:56)

What is the analytical framework that we must have to analyse the competitor repeating the

same thought the market analysis and demand forecasting are helpful, but they are not the

ultimate determinants. Market segmentation and consumer analysis will also be helpful, but

they are also not the final determinants.

Competitors have to be analysed to understand if the demand that is being forecast can be

actually realized by the company. So, a company must look at the competitors in terms of

four aspects what are the future goals, what is the current strategy, what are the capabilities

and what are the assumptions.

The competitor response profile comprises questions such as this: does the competitor want

to improve its share, what strategies will the competitor adopt, and where is the competitor

strong or weak? What could trigger strong retaliation by the competitor are the competitors

acting singly or collectively in an industry where about 10 companies are there.

And with different kinds of ownership, that is, indigenous ownership as well as overseas

ownership, the response profiles of the competitors are likely to be different which means

that the company has to really act on multiple fronts to be able to be competitive against each

and every company.

On the other hand, if all the competitors are of homogeneous type in terms of the ownership,

capabilities and strategy, it is a singular strategy of the entire competitor block that needs to

be attacked by the company. So, the future goals of a company occur at all levels and in all

domains of the organisation.

The strategy of the company is seen in terms of the evolution of the current business, the

capabilities are seen in terms of the strengths and weaknesses and the assumptions the

competition has about itself in the industry. Typically, whenever a company introduces a new

truck, the competitor comes up with several trucks to say that I have got a much wider range

and I am going to be in this business in a more competitive fashion.

And these kinds of activities indicate the kind of assumptions the company is making about

its competition, whether it thinks of itself as a long standing and dominant player for the

future or it is just looking at a one-to-one relationship with the competition. The quantitative

framework that is presented for company analysis, which is the analysis of your company,

will be equally relevant for competitor's quantitative analysis as well. This framework

enables a strategic analysis of the company and the competitor, that is much needed.

(Refer Slide Time: 10:51)

Analysis of competition has got several foresights; we should not limit competitor analysis

only to direct competitors, which is firms providing the same or similar products. It is quite

possible, we have seen it

in the earlier lectures,

that competitors could seek strategic

adjacencies; therefore, although they are not direct competitors, sooner than later, they could

come into the area where you are operating.

Paytm may not have seen Reliance Financial Services arm as a competitor and would have

seen it as a financial support arm for the reliance products, particularly the retail products as

well as the telecom products; however, the spinoff of the Reliance Financial Service Arm is

going to place the company in direct competition with Paytm and that has already impacted

Paytm in terms of its business positioning as well as stock price.

Therefore, trying to say that these competitors are my direct competitors, these competitors

are my indirect competitors, and these are my distant competitors, and the fourth category of

companies are completely non-competitors is probably not so easy as we may imagine.

So, the problem is that we should have a very wide expanse of our vision in terms of looking

at the competitors. Over and above that, forecasting who could be the potential competitor in

the future is even more difficult. So, let us look at the categories of competitors. The first

classification, which is easily understood classification is that of firms which are direct

competitors and who are in the same industry.

The second type of classification relates to firms which are not in the industry but who could

overcome entry barriers easily. That

is for a two-wheeler company; someone in the

four-wheeler could probably overcome the entry barriers and come in. For Eicher, which has

been in the tractor industry, it has been possible to overcome the entry barriers and enter the

commercial vehicle industry, thus becoming a competitor for another commercial vehicle

firms.

The third category relates to the firms for whom there is an obvious synergy from being in

the industry. If you are already in one segment of the industry, which is helpful for the other

segment of the industry,

it makes sense for it to get into that industry and become a

competitor; suppose you are a company making oncology products; therefore, you have a lot

of sterile injectable capability.

For you as that company, it makes sense to leverage that sterile engineering capability to be

in other sterile injectables place, although oncology drugs and those sterile injectable drugs

are not the same industrial segment or same business segment; however, the synergy has

driven the company to move into the next competitive position.

The fourth category of competitors relates to firms for whom competing in the industry is an

extension of the corporate strategy;

the corporate strategy of the firm says that

the

co-business is saturated, you need to move to another industry or another business. The fifth

category of competitors relates to the customers or suppliers who may integrate backward or

forward.

So far, they have not been your competitors, but after the strategic direction changed, they

became competitors. Bharat Forge was never a competitor for defense undertakings;

however, it chose to become forward integrated into defense products, including artillery and

other armaments, and that made Bharat Forge a competitor to other companies in the defense

services and defense products field. Let us look at

the competitors and the potential

competitor structure with some specific examples.

(Refer Slide Time: 15:07)

We have Apollo hospitals, and we have Lupin, we have Practo, we have Metropolis, and we

have Angstrom. So, if you are a medical diagnostics company, you can have competition

from all these companies. It is this is a just classroom illustration and does not reflect reality

or possibility.

So, you as the medical diagnostics firm, have direct competition from Metropolis, which is

another medical diagnostics firm which relates to the first category I have talked about. You

also have competition from Practo, which is a medical services company; they could pose

direct competition to you.

You could have competition from Apollo Hospitals, which is an end-to-end healthcare

system, and it is a hospital, it is a clinical services chain, everything combined together, and

you that could pose a problem to you in terms of the medical diagnostics business. Lupin is a

pharmaceutical company. It never thought about medical diagnostics, but it decided to

venture into that area. So, suddenly, a pharmaceutical company has become your competitor.

Angstrom Biotech is a biotech test kit company, and therefore, it has the ability to create test

kits for home testing it can create even a lab on the chip; with those kinds of developments,

you will find that your medical diagnostics capabilities are challenged by a different types of

technology substrate, which is that company is offering. So, this is a telling example that

competition for any company could arise from more than one direct competition, it could

come from strategic existence being pursued, any changes in the strategy and so on.

(Refer Slide Time: 16:55)

What are the goals of the competitors? The competitors and the company will have a

hierarchy of goals related to the corporate and business structures; there will be physical and

financial growth production, sales, capacity utilization, breakeven point, and growth rate.

These are the physical parameters.

In terms of the financial goals, there will be revenue, profit, return on investment, earnings

per share, debt-equity ratio, interest cover cash flow, and market cap. In terms of the strategic

goals, the company may pursue one of the three generic strategies, could have one particular

type of portfolio, and can pursue specialisation, diversification, integration, outsourcing, or

offshoring all of these as their strategic approaches.

It could also pursue globalisation, intellectual property generation, strategic direction, and

technological innovation as their strategic goals. Other companies may pursue governance

goals as well as compliance, ethics, values, corporate governance, risk management,

environment health and safety, social responsibility, and business continuity; these come up

as governance goals.

In terms of the structural goals, that is, how the organisation is structured, there would be

very specific indicators of the competitors' value systems as well as the objectives of the

board of directors, how it is constituted, the number of committees of the board and their

purpose, the CEO and leadership team the managerial team these are all structure related

goals.

Corporate structure, business structure, and organisation structure emerge as the structural

aspects of goals from an overall organisational perspective. There will be people-related

goals: should I have a CEO of this kind of pedigree, should I have a CXO of this kind of

pedigree, or the questions that leaders in the company get and they solve these things by

having certain goals.

Some companies believe that I will make extraordinary people out of ordinary persons and

that is the way they define their goal, whereas some other companies feel that they must get

people from the best possible pedigree to deliver the kind of expectations they have.

So, people goals could be in terms of CEO profile and background CXO profiles

organisational alignment

rewards long-term investment

incentive plans, non-financial

recognitions, and so on; there would also be national goals for competitors; some companies

try to align themselves more strongly with national goals.

So, out of the whole set of companies operating in an industry, only a few may align

themselves with government moves such as semiconductor development or production

incentive plans for the tough aspects of product development and so on. So, alignment with

national goals, ranking in terms of the national industrial canvas, and self-reliance initiatives

are all goals which prompt companies to align themselves.

Similarly, support to startups, support to macros small and medium enterprises, privatisation

and making India programs or other methods by which the national goals are met by the

individual companies. Every competitor, as well as the company, will have a hierarchy of

goals related to the corporate and business structures as I have discussed here.

(Refer Slide Time: 20:38)

So, once we know these kinds of goals, how do we analyse the competitor's goals. The first

way is to understand how the competitor's goals compare and contrast with the company's

goals. The second step is to understand how competitor's performance measures compare

with the company's performance measures.

How sustainable are the competitors' goals relative to the companies, and how sustainable are

the competitor's achievements relative to the companies? So, it has three-step process:

identification of goals and achievements, gap analysis of goals and achievements and,

therefore, determination of sustainable competitive advantage.

If the gap between the goals and achievements of the competitors is very wide compared to

the narrow gap that you have then it means that you have a superior competitive advantage

relative to the competition. So, every analysis of the competitor and your firm should lead to

identification of gaps and actions for sustainable competitive advantage for the firm.

You can see how the new company introduces its products. The mean time between product

introductions is different in respect of your company and the competitors. There could be

several insightful measures that can be used to understand the gaps between goals and

accomplishments.

(Refer Slide Time: 22:04)

Competitors have assumptions about themselves as also about the competitors similarly, the

firm which is trying to analyse the competitors has assumptions about itself and others. And

these assumptions can be about a firm's future capabilities, future industry scenario, and such

other factors and the variations of these assumptions with reference to the competition and

also the likely evolution of the actual parameters determines how strong or how weak the

competition is going to be.

So, what is important is the relative position with reference to the other parameters. Some

examples of the parameters on which you can have these relative assumptions are cost,

quality, technology, processes, and facilities; this is the technical set of how good you are in

terms of your cost engineering, how good you are in terms of your quality assurance, what is

the level of technology that you have and the manufacturing process controls that you are

able to incorporate.

And the state-of-the-art facilities that you have relative to your competitors, this is the

technical set as an example; then you have the pipeline that is how well endowed are you to

launch products not only tomorrow but years later. So, for that, you need to understand the

product pipeline regulatory approval status of yourself as well as the competitor, the capacity

profiles market finances.

Generally, a company which has got higher capacity is likely to be better positioned to meet

any uptick in demand. Therefore, this is the set of factors that determine the future capability

of the firm. Then we have reputation parameters, the brand value, the corporate reputation,

the ESG reputation, occupational safety and health reputation, and the ratings by various

credit rating agencies that is the brand value-related factors.

Next, you have the fourth tier, which is the identification that the company evokes, or the

competitor evokes with the stakeholders, and that could be historical identification; if a

company has been in a nation for 100 years, it has a different historical identification

compared to a company which has just started its business 1 year ago.

Then there is the emotional identification when Tata Group of companies or Tata Son's had

destabilizing influences a few decades ago. It is the emotional identification of the population

at large or the society at large and select segments of the government that has led the Tata

group's position to be strengthened, and that emotional identification is necessary for a

company to make its mark on the overall industrial scene.

The third is the belief in the future environment; companies get known as companies which

will go for the futuristic development. So, when a group such as Tata wants to enter the

semiconductor industry or when it

takes over Air India, such a behemoth which the

government could not manage with profitability because of the belief in the future

environment, the stakeholders believe that the company can deliver.

Then there is also belief in the future of the industry where the company is operating, that

leads to strong positive assumptions on the competitive capability of the company. And also,

there are beliefs related to the future competition whether the future competition would be

high or would be low. Interestingly, firms tend to have beliefs on the future while taking

quantitative facts somewhat less seriously; that is, there is in some companies a higher level

of preoccupation with future parameters than with current realities on the ground, that is not

good.

Similarly, getting fully occupied with the current realities, but not talking about or thinking

about future evolutions is also not correct. So, again, it has to be a balanced way of looking at

yourself as well as the competition in terms of the assumptions.

(Refer Slide Time: 26:27)

So, how do we assess the assumptions? We can make assumptions all the while, but how do

we know that the assumptions are fair and proper? So, we have to do this analysis carefully to

understand who will have a competitive advantage and what can be done to enhance it. There

are many methodologies to analyse assumptions, but these are by and large, qualitative and

experiential.

First, you need to collect all

the assumptions that are made by the company and the

competitors' filter against the history of past realities does the competitor have the habit of

making pompous announcements and not turning out real performance? Do I have myself the

history of making pompous announcements but not fulfilling those announcements in doing

so, you will find out the blind spots of yourself as well as the competitors.

Then, you assess the managerial competencies of both companies. Assess the support factors

such as the board, the auditors, advisors, and consultants that is the company you are keeping

as a firm. Then, decide on the probability of the company's success vis-a-vis the competitors.

Again,

some divisions,

such as marketing and business development which, are

customer-focused and customer connected or better positioned to provide inputs to the senior

leadership team in analysing these assumptions.

(Refer Slide Time: 27:56)

So, what

is the framework for analysing assumptions and achievements? We have the

company's assumptions, and these assumptions could be worse than the competitors or better

than the competitors then, there would be the company's achievements, which could be worse

than the competitors or better than the competitors.

So, as a company, I make assumptions about myself vis–a–vis the competition. As a

company, I make achievements vis-a-vis the competition, better or worse in either case. So,

what happens in such a situation? If your assumptions are worse than the competitors, that is,

you are on a lower pedestal even on an assumption basis, and your actual achievement is

worse than the competitors then you have an endemic competitive disadvantage which is an

innate which is an innate inherent competitive disadvantage.

Suppose your assumptions are better than the competitors, but your performance is worse

than the competitors, you are likely to end up in competitive failure. Let us say that your

company's assumptions are worse than the competitors', but your performance in fact, has

been better than the competitors then you end up with likely competitive success.

But let us assume that you have consistently better ranking assumptions than the competitors

and your performance is better than the competitors then you will have likely sustainable

competitive advantage. This analytical framework, again is an original framework that I am

presenting to you as part of this course.

So, the central tendency would be that the assumptions and achievements are the same

between the company and the competitor;

that means that the entire industry is in an

equilibrium state. As we deal with futuristic assumptions and past achievement records, we

may arrive at likely competitive scenarios as well.

(Refer Slide Time: 29:59)

This is as far as the structure and strategy are concerned, but we need to delve deeper into the

competitive strategies that are being adopted by the competitors. So, three generic strategies

as we have considered earlier, are differentiation, cost leadership, and focus or niche. Now,

let us see how it works out.

Let us say you are a company wedded to cost leadership, and the competitor is also wedded

to cost leadership. What would happen there would be intense rivalry because you are

similarly positioned and you are similarly capable in terms of the cost parameter. Let us say

you are differentiated, and the competitor is also differentiated; then again, you will have

intense rivalry because you are equally pitched in terms of your capabilities and

accomplishments in the marketplace.

Let us say you are differentiated, but the competitor is having cost leadership; then what

happens? The rivalry is co-existent; the competitor performs at one level, and you perform at

another level. So, both companies coexist. Let us say you have differentiation or cost

leadership as your strategy and competitor has focus or niche again, you are operating in

different places and therefore, you will be coexisting as rivals.

So, if the same generic strategy is adopted by both the firms, the intensity of competition will

be much higher than when you have different strategies to work on and that is why you try to

choose competitive strategies, which are somewhat unique to your position.

(Refer Slide Time: 31:40)

Let us look at the current strategy; current strategy nothing but a is a combination of the goals

that you set for yourself and the capabilities that you have built for yourself together, these

become the strategy of the company. And these are set based on certain assumptions with the

objective of achieving certain things in the business space. And the goals, capabilities,

assumptions and achievements are tied together by what we call the corporate strategy or the

business strategy.

(Refer Slide Time: 32:16)

When you look at competitors, you will find that all the time, they make statements, and

those statements can be bold and provocative; they also tend to be powerful enough to

preempt competition, but all the firms in an industry may not make the announcements or

take the announcements in the same way. There could be adjustments amongst

the

competitors.

But at the same time, there could be multiple new collaboration opportunities in the broader

industry. The classic case is the Adani Group. Adani Group has been a pioneer in renewable

energy Adani Group has agreed to invest as much as 30 billion US dollars across the entire

energy sector with thrust on renewables and clean fuels such as hydrogen.

Mukesh Ambani's Reliance Industries, which has focused until now on petrochemicals,

decided to participate in renewable energy or what it calls as the new energy initiatives in a

big way. So, the company said that it would invest 20 billion dollars, including giga factories

and partnerships. There is a subtle difference in the strategy between Adani Group as well as

Ambani Group, but the ultimate strategy is to lead to the production of renewable energy, and

having a dominant position, we have Ola Electric which announced that it is investing in an

electric scooter plant of 10 million units per annum capacity. Sudarshan Venu of TVS motor

announced plans to invest just 1000 crore in a 2-wheeler plant of 100000 per annum capacity

both are operating in the electric vehicle industry, but they have decided to choose different

investment levels and different capacity levels, whereas Adani and Ambani have chosen to

operate in the same kind of investment and capacity scale. Now, when Gautam Adani says

that he is buying cement companies it is a signal that the infrastructure play is going to be

much stronger for the company in future.

The company says it is committed to becoming the biggest infra-developer in terms of its

ports and roads. It is a signal that the infrastructure space will be dominated by the company

when it makes a statement that it would invest in the petrochemical complex which may be

seen as a kind of retrograde decision one may also feel that there is a plan behind that;

similarly, when Adani Group says that it is going to compete for 5G auctions, but only for

private networks it looks like a humble initiative, but there could be something more than

what is visible in such a step. So, competitive statements cannot always be taken at face

value; they have to be judged for the importance they bring to the business strategy and

corporate strategy. So, competitive statements have to be looked at in their totality and at

times, reading between the lines.

(Refer Slide Time: 35:20)

So, to judge these capabilities is the next task because vision statements, objectives missions

are all statements of purpose, but the companies should have functional capabilities to be able

to fulfill

those mission statements. These are the determinants of a firm's competitive

advantage. In the ultimate analysis, some examples of typical strengths and weaknesses of a

firm or its competitors are listed below.

In respect of R&D, the product depth, as well as the product breadth, the product standing,

the product pipeline, the patents and copyrights, in-house capability, R&D contracts, design

language, R&D facilities and the number of R&D scientists and technologists are a few of the

R&D capabilities this is the functional capability of the R&D system; When you look at the

operations of the manufacturing facility network, the capacity, and the breakeven point, the

lower the breakeven point, the better will be its competitive advantage process efficiency the

least loss operation is the most profitable operation. Economies of scale as well as scope

when you talk about economies of scale the higher unit volume that you have.

When you talk about economies of scope the ability to manufacture a range of products with

some modularity using the same facilities. So, that is the economies of scale and scope

concept own vendor locations, labor skills and unionization, access to raw materials and

components integration levels and outsourcing levels, process technologies and intellectual

property lean and flexibility in manufacture these are all the considerations in operations.

When you look at marketing, the channel relationships that you have, the channel location's

exclusivity, non-exclusivity, and the extent of legacy relationships as well as forward-looking

relationships these all matter. Salesforce strengths and skills, strengths in 4 Ps, customer

relationships, skills in MR and design thinking, that is, skills in market research and design

thinking.

Sales parts and service support, digital marketing skills or marketing attributes reflect well on

the functional capabilities of marketing. In terms of finance, you have cash flow and reserves,

debt and equity headroom, borrowing capacity, equity raising capacity,

financial

management, accounting and auditing skills, corporate governance, and the ability to incubate

ventures.

These are all financial capabilities, but this list is not exhaustive. There could be several other

competencies such as organisational competencies, the ecosystem competencies, and cultural

competencies; these are also important. A company which is scoring very high on cultural

integrity is likely to be a better performer than a company which does not subscribe to good

cultural anchors.

(Refer Slide Time: 38:29)

This is about functional capabilities then there would be general organisational capabilities in

how the organisation plans and conducts its business. These are apart from technical and

functional capabilities and these organisational capabilities distinguish firms in a very

substantive manner in respect of structure is the structure aligned to the strategy is the

structure promoting efficiency and effectiveness.

If you have a large company which has business verticals and with the business within

business verticals product verticals, one may say that the company is get for specialization as

well as growth. Roles and responsibilities how well they are defined does one person look

after many tasks, or he is specialized enough with an appropriate collaborative network

within the organisation?

The structural strength of an organisation structure, and the flexibility to reconfigure as

required these are all important and as far as the processes are concerned the clarity of

purpose that prevails within the organisation. The activity clarifies what I should do in terms

of the sequence and in terms of the parallel activities.

The structure of process alignment, the process efficiencies, coordination, resilience, integrity

of the process, code of conduct of managers and executives, and the compliance standards

these are some of the ramifications of process capability. Then, you have leadership

capabilities.

Leadership qualities of CEO and CXOs, ability to drive business, succession strength, depth

of management, flexibility and adaptability these are all the factors which provide extra drive

and pep to an organisation. Then you have talent-related capabilities, the skill set or the

competency set,

the cultural moorings,

the unity of values or purpose, the age of the

organisation, learning and development capabilities, collaboration and networking capability,

and so on.

Again, these are not exhaustive; we can look at several other organisational competencies

when you sit to analyse them in greater detail.

(Refer Slide Time: 40:42)

So, when a company is faced with competition, how does the company respond, or how does

the competitor respond? If both companies are in a neutral state where nobody responds

against the other, one may assume that they have become happy in retaining the current state;

they do not want to disturb the equilibrium it is a kind of live-and-let-live situation.

But it is hardly the case in real life when each company tries to get the better of the

competition. And to be able to do that, after all the analysis that we have laid out so far, you

may decide to make either competitive moves that are offensive on purpose or defensive on

purpose. So, what are the offensive moves? How aggressive is the competitor to improve the

position?

Is he going to do something to disturb the equilibrium and how would the competitor try to

reach the improved position and how strong and persistent would be the moves? Your

assumptions on the offensive moves of the competitor would determine how you are going to

make your moves.

On the other hand, you will look at the defensive moves as well as how vulnerable is the

competitor to the firm's actions and the firm I take certain actions. Is the competitor capable

of defending itself, or its going to buckle? If I make a move, how would the competitor

retaliate? How strong would it be?

So, you are being circumspect; you are going to make your moves in a defensive manner,

thinking of the competitors' retaliation possibilities and in case the competitor reacts, how

strong would be the firm in the face of retaliation. So, you are having two sets of thought

processes, and that helps you to craft either an offensive move or a defensive move.

Companies must analyse themselves and their competitors comprehensively, and they must

think strategically about retaliation both from the firm's viewpoint as well as from the

competitor's viewpoint. For every action, there will be a consequence similarly, for every

competitive move, there will be a counter-competitive move.

So, we should be able to focus those moves and move accordingly; every firm should

understand the degrees of freedom available to both sides in the competitive game; there is no

point in your trying to lower the pressure when you know that you are not the least cost

producer. And even more, if the other company is a lower cost producer.

So, it is just not going to be a good competitive action to proceed in that direction. On the

other hand, if you have the ability to differentiate yourself and the other company is a cost

leader, you may build upon your strengths and make offensive moves in terms of

differentiation. Therefore,

the key to good competition is to understand the degrees of

freedom that are available to both the sides in the competitive game and that is because

competitors could react in multiple ways.

(Refer Slide Time: 43:52)

In terms of retaliation by the competition, there could be three types of retaliation; one type

matches a competitive move by similar conduct, you reduce the price, and the other

competitor also reduces the price. So that the competitive balance is not disturbed. The other

type is that apart from matching in the operations in part or in full there would be plotting of

a broader strategic response.

And the third way is to have a simply non-retailing approach, thinking that this competition

will be a transient phase, seeing that the firm is not responding, the competitor would roll

back. So,

there are three ways: operational retaliators who match the moves, strategic

retaliators who plot a broader script, and non-retaliators who succumb or succeed over time.

It is not necessary that a firm should retaliate against every competitive move. It may be

wholly unnecessary if companies have sustainable brand equity; it will be possible for such

companies to write out this storm. Only those companies which lack such differentiated

capability must look at doing certain things to provide that defensive capability.

And if those companies do not have the defensive capability and are not able to conjure up

any particular strategic retaliation, they are likely to succumb to competitive pressures over

time.

(Refer Slide Time: 45:25)

So, what are the battlegrounds for competition? Many firms have several options to choose as

battlegrounds for competitive actions; features and price are usually the more chosen

competitive arenas; whatever be the option that is chosen, it must have a linkage with the

overall generic strategy of the company.

As I alluded to earlier, a company should not try to differentiate itself as a competitive move

when it does not have the R and D capability to differentiate itself beyond one or two

features. So, you have to choose your battleground appropriately. So, when you look at the

area of competitive action by a firm it could be just price, it could be features, it could be

service, or it could be a combination of the above.

Price-based competition works well

for differentiated firms because you are already

differentiated, and if you are able to offer the differentiation at a more competitive price, you

are likely to be a winner. Suppose you have features that are now added as competitive action

that will work well if you are already a cost leader; when you are a cost leader, you are seen

as a generic company or a commodity company, but when you add features, then you will be

seen as a differentiated company it, therefore, works well for cost leaders; suppose you have

decided to use service as your competitive weapon, which is you establish a network of

service stations, you train your service mechanics to be at service in a very great manner, and

you make available the spare parts in a surplus manner.

Then you are seen as a service provider of the highest standard. It is a competitive move and

that works well for both the strategies which I have described earlier. Suppose you use a

combination of the above, you could diffuse the impact because you are there everywhere,

and the customer is unable to judge you similarly, the competitor is also unable to judge you

where you are positioning yourself.

And any abrupt action or, random action or knee-jerk action by the competitor could take

away the (Refer Time: 47:32) from the combination that you have thought about. When

features and price are further supported by service, certainly, a firm gains competitive

advantage on a holistic basis.

Why and how firms and competitors work on these options depends on who the customers

are and how well

they understand the customers and how well they connect with the

customers. So, competitive actions have to be carefully chosen and the battlegrounds also

must be carefully chosen. With this, we come to the end of this lecture. I hope to see you in

next week's lectures.

