BusinessDevelopment FromStart to Scale
Prof.C BhaktavatsalaRao
Department ofManagement Studies
Indian Institute of Technology,Madras
Week-01
Business Fundamentals
Lecture- 01
Understanding BusinessDevelopment
Hifriends, welcometothe NPTELcourse BusinessDevelopment: FromStart to Scale.
(ReferSlide Time: 00:17)
First of all, I will providean introductionto thecourse.

(ReferSlide Time: 00:20)
My name is C Bhaktavatsala Rao, C B Rao in short, I have received my PhD degree in
Industrial Management and MTech degree in IndustrialEngineeringfromthe Indian Institute
of Technology Madras, Chennai. I have received my BE Degree in Mechanical Engineering
from Sri VenkateswaraUniversity,Tirupati.
I have over 48 years of diversified experience instrategic andoperationalleadershipoflarge
reputed companies, including global MNCs in India. My last full-time assignment was as
ManagingDirector andExecutiveChairmanof PfizerHealthcareIndiaPrivateLimited.
I have been passionate about writing and publishing as well as teaching. I have over 170
publications ineconomic and businessdailiesand refereedjournals.
I have established LeaderCrest Academy for high-quality academic publishing. I have
authored and published ten books under the LeaderCrestbannerover the lastfiveyears.Iam
currently serving as Ajit Singhvi Chair Professor in Management Studies, DoMS, at the
Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Chennai. I serve as non-executive director on the
boards of select companies and also render some advisory services for Indian and
multinational corporations.
I have offered three courses “Entrepreneurship: Perspectives of Business Strategy and
Economic Development”, “Leadership for IndiaInc:PracticalConcepts andConstructs”,and
“Strategy and Technology: A Practical Primer” on NPTEL-Swayam Platform. This course

which is being offered this semester is the fourth one. The other courseLeadershipfor India
Inc:PracticalConceptsand Constructsis alsobeing offered inparallel.
(ReferSlide Time: 01:58)
Business development is the process of identifying, defining and shaping the known and
unknown customer needs. It helps the company develop products and services that meet
customer needs. Business development is a partnership process that co-creates value for the
company and its customers. Business development helps a company understand the mega
trends thatareemerging in theeconomy andinthe industry.
It leverages the competencies of individuals as well as the organization in the overall. It
delivers onsocio-economicpurposeas well.

(ReferSlide Time: 02:36)
This course is a very unique course. It is a comprehensive study of business development
concepts, models, methodologies and tools. It is a unique integration of the adjunctdomains
such as strategic marketing, business strategy and business models with the core course of
business development. It provides end-to-end value chain perspectives that are needed for
effective business development. In doing so, it also integrates several real-life examples and
casestudies.
As you cruise through the course, you will understand the building blocks of business, and
the drivers of ‘company and customer’ connect. And, you also will understand how youcan
create the right businessimpact byamastery ofbusiness development.Allof this willlead to
enterprisegrowth, economicprosperityand professionalfulfilment.

(ReferSlide Time: 03:30)
This is a 12-week course and, in each week we will focus on one theme and in each lecture
we will focus on one topic. The themes are Business Fundamentals, Business Development
Strategies, Industry Structure and Company Analysis, Market and Competitor Analysis,
Connectingwith Customers,
(ReferSlide Time: 03:50)
Business and Market Segments, Branding and Pricing, Corporate Development, Business
Development Structures,BusinessDevelopmentCompetencies.

(ReferSlide Time: 04:00)
Strategies for Markets and Industries and finally, five important BusinessDevelopment Case
Studies. Thecoursewill end withasummary capsulecourse(Refer Time: 04:15)course. This
course is enriched by multiple case studies and these case studies cover businesses and
industries in varying shades. Start-ups companies and conglomerates will be covered as part
of thecasework.
(ReferSlide Time: 04:35)
As I said this is a 12-week course, there would be 61 lectures. In total 5 lectures per week,
excluding the summary course at the end. There will be end-of-the-week assignments. Each

week we will focus on one core theme, each lecture we will cover specific topics. I will be
providing several illustrative and experiential examples throughout. The course will feature,
asI said, casestudiesof BD leadingtoenterprise valuecreation.
These are full-scale case studies of how a company has grown from its initial stages to the
current scaled up stage. There are around 1600 dataand informationrelated slidesandthis is
a very unique course delivery mechanism, that I have followed throughout my NPTEL
lecture series.
You will find these course materials very useful, not only now for the course purposes, but
also as a guidance document-set as you go along your professional journey. It will have
several global and local perspectives as part of the course work and therewillbe afocusnot
only on thestrategicaspects ofbusinessdevelopment, butalso onthetacticalrequirements of
business development.
For better visual presentation, I have used certain images from public domain or under
creative commons. But this isdonepurelyfor educational purposesand thecopyrights, ifany
areduly respected.
(ReferSlide Time: 06:03)
What are the unique features of this course? One, it provides a detailed and integrated
overview of the growth driving domain of business development. Two, it lays out the
strategies and tactics of business development through multiple frameworks and models.

Three, it links up business development with strategic marketing, a very important strategic
adjacencyto leadto enterprisecompetitiveness, growth andsustainability.
This course will be found useful by a broad spectrum ofstudents, workingprofessionals and
academicians to develop and hone their strategic skills, integrating multiple technology
insights. As I said, multiple adjunct areas are covered in this course, and it embeds strategic
marketing approachesall through.
(ReferSlide Time: 07:54)
Upon completion of the course, participants are likely to achieve four important
developmental capabilities. One, you would have acquired critical business development
skills. You would be understanding theartand scienceof formulatingandexecutingbusiness
developmentapproaches.
Secondly, you will also become a developmentvisionary, becauseofthe natureof thetheory,
the constructs, and the nature of the case studies, you will understand and appreciatehow to
be a visionary and strategist for your company. And, you will understand business
development in terms of the current course of development as well as in the futuristic
potential.
And, you will be able to understand how to be anticipatory and also execution-oriented in
your professional journey. So, in the overall, you will become a development visionary.
Thirdly, you will be leveragingmultiple functionsinyour businessdevelopment activityafter

the course is completed and you will understand how multiple functions are integrated with
business developmentdomain.
Then, fourthly, you will be understanding and appreciating the role of multiple functions in
driving business development and you will respect them and also you will utilize them
appropriately with respect. And finally, because ofthe inputs thatarereceived, your personal
gravitas will enhance. You will become holistic professionals with personal gravitas that
translatesto positivecompany image.
(ReferSlide Time: 08:25)
Now, we will come to the course per se. The domain of business development integrates
various strategies, processes and tasks to drive a firm’s business performance. It requires
close interface with various other functions, aligning with thevision, missionand strategyof
the firm. Business development is a process that is both tactical and strategic in nature. It
involvesinitiatives within thecompany andbetween the companyand itscustomers.
When you talk about a company, there are different types of companies. There are small
companies as well as largecompanies. If youwanttounderstand thehierarchyof companies,
youcanmoveata globalgroup levelandcome tothe smallestentitycalledthe product.So,if
you take the example of Tata group, Tata group is a group. It has got several companies
within the conglomerate umbrella that Tata group is and each company may have several
businesses aswell.

For example, if you take the Tata consumer beverages business, it is a part of the Tata
Consumer Products company as a whole. Each company will have sub-businesseswhichare
important for the company’s development and each business could even have a division
within itself and each divisionwouldhave aproduct.And, driving all ofthesethings together
is a process which top leaders are interested in. They need todevelop thevision andmission
for thecompany.
They need to develop the business strategy for the companyand cascadethose strategiesinto
functional strategies. So, short term performance which is important for the company to be
successful and profitable, long-term performance to make the company sustainable and
growth oriented for the future are the two critical aspects of business strategy and business
development.
And, this course tries to provide you enough insights into these two activities and whenyou
have short term performance ticking very well, when you have long term performance
shaping upverywell,youwill haveonthe wholesustainableperformance for thecompany as
wellastheconglomerate incaseaconglomerate isinvolved.
(ReferSlide Time: 10:49)
There are two key streams of enquiry in business development. Withrespect toanybusiness
or any industry, business development isinfluenced bytwoimportant streamsoffactors.One
the supply side factors, two the demand side factors. What are the supply side factors? The

industry factors, the nature of the industry, the inputs to the industry, the outputs to the
industry,thelinkages withthe environmentand soon.
There are also firm level factors that is, what are the firms which are the constituents of the
industry and what kind of products they provide. Coming to the demand side factors, you
have the customer needs,you havethe environmentalrequirements andimperativesand there
are also behavioural response factors which are somewhat independent, but very influential
onall of thesefactors.
When you look at the supply side factors, you have the nature of the industry, you have the
number of competitors that are operating in the industry as well as thecollaborators who are
operating in theindustry.In termsof thedemand side factors,thedemographic factorsrelated
to the customers, the attitudes, beliefs and preferences that the customers have are relevant,
and theseareimportantaspects.
But, influencing the demand are certain enabling factors; these could be related to the
economic factors, environmental factors, social factors, community factors or the overall
global factors. The frameworks and constructs proposedin thiscourse willaddress theabove
in an interconnected manner. I will be dealing with each of these sub-subjectsprogressively,
but inasmuchdepthaspossible withinthe boundariesof this course.
(ReferSlide Time: 12:39)

So, what do we have as a learning outcome?AsI said,wewill try tounderstandthe business
development methodology as a key component of business strategy and corporate
development. We will also focus on the roles and responsibilities of the heads of business
development, how they should be partners totheCEOand otherCXOs.Wewill also analyze
how differentcontexts requiredifferentbusiness developmentstrategies.
We will also master the tools and techniques that build long term value for customers and
companies for business partnerships. In addition, we will also develop a critical thinking
process. How we should develop and present professional analysis through formal
presentation will beone of theimportant by-products ofthis coursefor you.
(ReferSlide Time: 13:27)
But before we go into greater depth, let us understand certain important terms that keep
popping up from time to time in this course. You, yourself, as part of your other academic
studies as well as your professional journeys, would frequently come across the terms sales,
marketing and business development. Many people use these three terms almost
synonymouslyor in substitution ofeach other,but itis reallynotso.
There are important differences between sales,marketing andbusiness development.What is
sales? In essence, sales is the process of selling a product or service toacustomer ata given
point of time.Marketing, on theotherhand, isthe processof addressingthe total marketfor a
productto developand fulfildemand over aproductlifetimeandover atimeline.

Business development is the process ofcreating partnerships betweenthe company andother
stakeholders for developing the business. If it is, so what is the orientation of a typical sales
officer,a marketingofficer andabusinessdevelopment officer?
A sales person or a sales functionary typically looks at the transaction between the firm and
the customer. I am offering the product of the company; I need the consideration from the
customer and that has to be a mutual consideration and hopefully a mutually beneficial
consideration. Marketing, on the other hand, looksat theexperienceof thecustomer withthe
product and tries to create a long-term association. It is not just today’s sale, but is the
long-term relationship thatis thefocusof marketing.
Business developmentcreatesstructures andrelationships for long-term valuecreation for the
company as well as for the customers. As you can see, the focus and the thrust of the
functionaries representingsales, marketingand businessdevelopmentvary significantly.
What is the perspective for sales? Salesperson looks at the company needs and targets.
Marketing person looks at the company needs, but also looks at the trends. A business
development person looks at the business synergy between the company and its customers.
The scope of a sales person typically is at the sales level. A marketing person looks at all
activities including, but not limited to marketresearch; piloting ofaproductsaleand service.
So, marketingismuchmore comprehensive.
A business development person looks at all the activities related to, but not limited to
analyzing mutual business needs and fulfilling the needs. Business development not only
looks at the company’s perspectives, but also the partners’ perspectives and creates alasting
relationship.
The methodology of a sales person is to induce shoppers and customers to buy. The
methodology of the marketing person is to create a customer centric experience and the
business development executive looks at developing a value proposition that is tenable for a
strategic association. The metrics by which a salesperson judges himself or herself and the
company itselfjudges him orher is throughrevenue andprofitmetrics.
Marketing is judged by the brand value it is able to create. We constantly do brandauditsin
well-developed FMCG and other companies to assess the effectiveness of a marketing
function. Business development is assessed through the business growth. The rule that sales

adopts is caveat emptor. Marketing adopts caveat vendor and business developmentrequires
transparency.
Techniques thatareadopted bythesalesperson are4Ps,product,price,placeandpromotion.I
will present thetechniquesthat areoffered, andtheplatforms thatareoffered bymarketing in
its quest; 4 Vs of marketing, I will present them during the course. And, business
development looks at 4 Cs, again this will be presentedas wegothrough thecourse.So, this
combination of 4 Ps, 4 Vs and 4 Cs is, again, a very unique offering ofthis course.You will
not findit in anysingulartext.
The skills required for a salesperson aresellingandcommunicationskills.Theskills required
for a marketing person are conceptual and analytical skills whereas for the business
developmentperson,strategic businessskillsand valuechain capabilities willberequired.
The objectives, of course, arealigned.Interms ofbusiness,the salespersonlooks atbusiness
growth. Marketing person looks at sustainable business growth, not just yearly targets. The
marketing person looks at long-term growth targets, whereas a business developmentperson
looks at sustainable strategic business growth. So, when you look at this as an overall
summary, you will find that there are important differences between sales, marketing and
business development.
We cannot conclude, however, that business development is superior to marketing and
marketing is superior to sales, nor can we conclude theotherway. Allthe threefunctionsare
required and each has got its unique role, important role. One provides immediate annual
sales, the other provides sales annually, but in a growing fashion. And, the third provides
durable sustainablepartnerships for thecompany’s growth.
So, there are important differences between the between these three sub functions, even as
each of thesefunctionsisinvolvedwithbusiness growth.

(ReferSlide Time: 19:09)
Now, the time has come to define business. What is business? Business is the activity of an
organization to develop, manufactureand ormarket productsandor servicestoindividualsor
entities andtheobjectiveis toearnrevenuesand profitsand generatereturns tothe investors -
that iswhatbusiness isabout.
(ReferSlide Time: 19:32)
There are many types of businesses and there are so many businesses; hundreds of them
actually that it is impossible to list them outhere.But youcan lookatfew important typesof
businesses. You can have a business that is manufacturing oriented, youcan havebusinesses

that are marketing oriented. There could be product oriented businesses, service oriented
businesses, integratedbusinesses andR&Dbusinesses.
SPARC, an R&D subsidiary of Sun Pharma focuses only on designing and developing
molecules for medicinal needs. It is an R&D oriented business. Therefore, it is an R&D
business. Lonza a third party supplier, developer and manufacturer, contract manufacturer
and developer as we call such companies; develops products and services based on
manufacturingrequirementsof othercompanies.
There are companies which you look at marketing themselves to provide certain services,
marketing businesses.
There are companies which provide out and out very involved, very complex products. You
take the example of Hitachi Medical Systems which provides imaging equipment or other
kind of medicaldevices.
There are companies which are very much inservice, healthcareservice for example,Apollo
hospitalsisa leadingexample.
And, when we talk about integrated businesses, they do development that is R&D,
manufacturing, marketing and various other functions are involved in this process. Sun
Pharmaceuticalsisan exampleof suchintegratedbusiness.
(ReferSlide Time: 21:10)

So, ifbusiness iswhatI have statedsofar; whatisbusiness development?I havetalkedabout
business development in its overall context,but letus lookata fewotherinsightsof business
development. Business development involves anticipating, identifying and developing
opportunities for enhancing business. There are threeaspects ofbusiness developmentwhich
wemust becognizant of.
One, a transactional aspect, second a reinforcing aspect and third is a futuristic aspect.What
is the transactional aspect? Like sales and marketing, business development also provides
products and services to customers through commercial relationships. If, as a business
development executive, you have no products or services to offer, there is no basis for
dialoguewith anotherpartner.
So, apartner looksfor products andservicesfromanotherpartner. Asabusinessdevelopment
executive, even if you do not have current products and services, you can develop a
relationship based on future products and services. That is a transactional aspect of business
development.
The second aspect of business development is continuous reinforcing of relationships by
developing collaborations, alliances and partnerships with various business entities. You can
providea networkof business connectivity,marketing connectivity for thecompany.
And, third, business development is always futuristic. It tries to identify opportunities, not
only as pertheclassic product-market grid, butalso byspottingthemega trendsof thefuture.
So, theresponsibilityof business developmentis veryvast.

(ReferSlide Time: 22:53)
As I briefly mentioned, there are allied functions and processes for business development.
Fundamentally, business strategy is very much alike tobusiness development,becauseit sets
the context and provides the direction. A business development executive cannot gointo the
market or to the industrial place and do whatever the person wants. Whatever the business
developmentpersondoesneeds tobealignedwith thebusinessstrategy of thecompany.
Secondly, business development has to eventuallylead tomarketing that is,the company and
its brand as well as the products and services must be promoted as part of the business
development activity. And, once that is done at a macro level or ahigh levelorat astrategic
level,marketing functiontakesover andhelps.
The third one is that the entire series of processes which I have outlined; strategy, business
development,and marketing mustresult inarobustsales platform.
The enhanced sales and business that come eventually from the business development
activity is the proof of the success of business development activity in any company. These
are the allied functions and processes which are very much integrated with business
developmentin anycompany.

(ReferSlide Time: 24:14)
Having talked about selling, marketing and business development, let us look at these
processes. The selling process is a fairly standardized straightforward process and it occurs
between a seller and a buyer in a marketplace. You start with prospecting. You try to
understand who is the customer, whether the customer needs theproduct,andthen youmake
an initial contact.
Youqualify thatlead, thiscustomer iscapable ofpurchasing, thenyouapproachthe lead. You
demonstrate theproduct;youhave theproposalas wellas theclarification for thecustomer to
appreciate the product. Then you try to close the sale, you collect the cash and then you
repeat the contact. This is the typical selling process and it is happening because company
and customer need a bridge and that bridge is the productorservice sale.And, who makesit
happen? Thesalesperson.

(ReferSlide Time: 25:11)
When you look at the strategic marketing process, that is a more rigorous and customized
process. It discovers and develops the marketplace and it also helps the company execute in
the market place. So, it tries to understand the market through its research. It identifies the
trends andit definesthemarket.
For example, are the consumers preferring energy drinks or are they preferring the food
beverages or are they preferring the carbonated drinks? What are the trends that are now
available? Within the fruit drinks are you preferring as a customer, the pulpy fruit drink or
non-pulpy fruit drink,isthere apreference interms ofsugaryor non-sugaryfruit beverages?
Is there a trend in termsof tetrapacking ornormal packing?So,which workswell? So, these
are the trends that are understood and presented to the company by the marketing person.
Once you do all of that market research,yousegmentthe marketand thenyoucreate product
for themarketsegment or for all thesesegmentsyoucreate several products.
Then, you prove the concept and then you align the business and market strategy. The
development of business strategy takes place as a high-level process, but it does not mean
that market and market research cannot influence the business strategy. Therefore, there
would be an alignment of business market strategy in a dynamic, agile and flexible
organization.

Then, youpositionthecompanyand theproductandexecute andmonitorthe marketingplan.
Let us say you have the example of edible oil, there are several edibleoils, butwhich edible
oil is preferred by which customer? - that is the homemaker! For which need is it? - for a
shallow frying, deep frying, simple cooking and for what other purposes? Depending upon
theanswers, youpositionaparticular edibleoilfor that need.
And, what are the characteristics the person is looking for in the edible oil? It is kind of a
look-feel or is it in terms of the frying capability, is it in terms of the nutritional capability,
how heart-healthy the oil is?These arethefeatures thatareimplicit ina customer’smindand
some of thefeaturesyoucan advocateandmake them explicitinthe customer’smind.
And finally, therefore, you create a marketing plan which the company executes. Here, the
linkage is between the product and the business and the marketplace is the transaction
platform for that tohappen.
(ReferSlide Time: 27:49)
Then, let us look at the business development process. It is a conceptual and analytical
process of using the company and customer value chains. First of all, you will introspect on
the company value chain, you identify the value points and value gaps through the value
chain. Youidentify potentialpartnersand youunderstandwho iscomplementary toyou.
For example, you are a manufacturer of a castings and an automobile company is a demand
source for thecastings.Theautomobile manufacturerdoesnot haveafoundry and youhavea

foundry, but you do not have any end-use. So, you both are the ideal partners to each other.
There areimportantcomplementaryvalue points andgaps.
You try to identify several such relationships and make those relationships become actual in
practice. Then, you discuss the potential to reinforce each other’s value chain. It could
happen across the borders as well. Overseas automobile companies may be requiring high
qualitybut lowcostcomponents; thatis thevalue perception theyhave ofIndia.
And, you have to prove to them that your company has got that capability to supply
components that fill the value point as well as the value gap. Therefore, you create a
combined value proposition.You shouldneversay asa businessdevelopmentpersonthat this
is what is the value proposition that sells for me. You should lookata valueproposition that
develops the partnership between the two companies and is a win-win for both the
companies.
And, then you test the strategic feasibility and economic viability. Why do youdothat?You
want to understand whether the partner has got the long-standing history as well as the
capability to be a strong longstanding partner for the future. Similarly, the other partner will
look atyour financialstrength, yourability todeliveronthe promises andsoon.
Once you dothat,youaregoingto alignthe businessmarket strategyand businessmodel and
then you enter into a partnership agreement, you execute and monitor the partnership.So, in
this casevalueproposition is thebridgebetween partner Aand partnerB.
Business developmenttherefore, isa networkingandpartnershipprocess thatis alignedtothe
business strategy for the firm’s sustainable growth. So, you have seen that there is a sales
process, there is a marketing process and there is a business development process. All of
thesethings leadto improvedbusiness,and enhancedbusinessfor thecompany.
But the way the process organizes itself, the way the process is conceptualized, the way the
process is executed is different in respect of each of these three sub-functions; namelysales,
marketing andbusiness development.

(ReferSlide Time: 30:31)
So, already you have heard a lot about the word strategy and I am hopeful that you would
have gone through a strategy course. Even if you have not gone through a strategy course,
you will find enough inputs in this course ofstrategy whichis definitelyavalue-addfor you.
Simply put, strategyisa plan ofactionto achievecertain goals.
Many times, goals are also set bythe strategyprocess itself. Itis notthat magically youthink
of a goal, that is: that I have amissionof becomingacleanenergy company.It also comesas
a part of your discoveryprocessin strategyformulation. Asyouundergothe strategyprocess,
you cross the various stage-gates ofunderstanding theenvironment andcompetition, andyou
will discoverthat thereareseveral othergoals thatcould bevery important for you.
So, goals are set usually for the strategy process, but the strategy process itself canhelp you
finetune thegoals or createnewgoals. MichaelPorter popularizedcompetitivestrategy rather
than just strategy as the key concept.Asyoutry tounderstand strategy,youarealways going
to be faced with two philosophical dilemmas. The first philosophical dilemma is whether
strategy isoneof analysis orintuition.
The second is whether strategy is a game of mirrors such that when Company A adopts a
particular strategy, you try to adopt that kind of strategy. So, is it a game of mirrors or is it
something very unique for each firm? And, to answer that wehaveto delvelittle deeperinto
what strategy is and how universalised an understanding of strategycan be.Strategic context
isthecontextwhich anindustry faces,a firmfaces andthecompetition faces.

Let us say the crude oil prices go up,thenthe strategiccontextfor thepaintscompany is that
the cost of thepaintwill go upbecause,crudeandits by-products areimportantinputs for the
paint manufacturing process. If the semiconductors are in short supply, the automobile
production gets reduced and the cost of production itself could go up - that is a strategic
context.
So, there is a strategic context for every industry, there is a strategiccontextfor the firmand
there is a strategic context for competition. If the Russia-Ukraine war reduces the supply of
grains or makes the supply of crude edible oils wavy and volatile, that is an important
strategic context for firms which are in the FMCG business or edible oil business in the
country,respectively.
So, strategic context is veryimportant. And, how doyouunderstandthe strategiccontextand
how do you position yourself in the strategic environment? You have three core disciplines.
One is industry analysis: you must be able to understand the industry in all its aspects
including the linkages with the environment. You should understand how to strategically
position the firm in the industry and how the industry is strategically positioned in the
economy.
And, you should be able to analyze the competitors becausethecompetitor behaviour isalso
influencing how a company can develop its own strategy. So, strategic context is what is
available to you, and the core disciplines are the levers that areavailableto positionyourself
in the strategiccontext.
And, whether youtakean analyticalroutetostrategy oran intuitiveroutetostrategy, whether
you look at strategy as an innovative process or justas agame ofmirrors following theother
is left to the wisdom and the innovative bent of mind of the strategist and the CEO in a
company.
But, as a matter of principle, if your strategy is futuristic, forward looking; if your strategy
tries to take care of the mega trends that are emerging, if the strategy is backed up by the
competences in the organization, andif indoingsoyoudonot forgetorignorethe short-term
performance considerations,then that strategywill beeffectiveand competitive.
The study of competitive strategy is not astudyonly for thestrategy function,it isintegral to
the study of any function.Thatis becausefor afirm thecompetitivestrategy goes beyondthe

sum of functional strategies. It is something more than that, it is a very synergistic strategy;
take into accountstrategies ofvarious otherfunctions.
The former must drive the latter and not vice versa. The functional strategies have to be
derived from the overall business strategy or the corporate strategy. It shouldnot bethat you
adopt certain functional strategies; therefore, you try to build a corporate strategy based on
thefunctional strategies,that isnotthe waytodoit.
(ReferSlide Time: 35:28)
Now, to delve a little deeper, let us understand that strategy itself can have three layers.The
first layer at the core is the business strategy - that is what you would need to do in the
business that youarehandling. Foradiversified automobilefirm, havingbetter penetrationin
thelight commercialvehiclesis abusinessstrategy for the LCVbusinessgroup.
Similarly, meeting the power generation needs of the industry, and the diesel power backup
needs of the industry is the business strategy for another business of the company. Meeting
the marineengine needsisanotherbusiness strategy,meetingthe truckandbusneeds again is
another businessstrategy.So, acompany mayhave differentbusinessstrategies.
When you amalgamate and harmonize all of these business strategies, you get a strategy for
the corporation which is called the corporate strategy. And, when you network all the
corporatestrategiesof all thecompanies inaconglomerate, yougetaconglomerate strategy.

Therefore, you need to understand the concentric circle model of developing strategy from
the business to the corporate to the conglomerate. And, within the corporate strategy you
have several layers; R&D, operations, marketing, finance, HR, IT etc., which broadly
correspond to the functions. There will be a lot of iteration among various functions as well
asbetween thefunctionsonone handandbusinessstrategy onthe other.
And, typically business strategy is theone whichisgoing tolead tofunctional strategies.Just
because you have a supercomputer in your company and you have a very developed IT
department, it cannot mean that you will do something that is wholly related to information
technology. You mayleverage yoursuperior ITcapability, butyouwillchoose abusiness and
abusinessstrategy thatismore sustainable,morerevenueproducingandmorefuturistic.
And, there are also other aspects such asthe founders’ interestsandvalues,the overallgroup
philosophy and so on. So, with this, we come to the end of this lecture 1 of the 1st week. I
hope you have enjoyed the introduction to the course and the laying out of the some
fundamental drivers of business developmentinthe company.And, I lookforwardto meeting
youagain inthe2ndlectureof week1.
Thankyouvery much.

