BusinessDevelopment FromStart to Scale
Prof.C BhaktavatsalaRao
Department ofManagement Studies
Indian Institute of Technology,Madras
Week-01
Business Fundamentals
Lecture- 03
Markets and Marketing
Hi, friends. Welcome to the NPTEL course Business Development: from Start to Scale. We
are in week 1, discussing Business Fundamentals. In this lecture, the 3rd in the series we
discuss thetopicof Markets andMarketing.
(ReferSlide Time: 00:26)
We have defined marketing as well as business development in our earlier sessions. In this
session we will focus on marketing strategy and various ramifications related to that.
Marketing strategy is nothing but the planning and execution of how afirm canexchangeits
products and services with individuals or organizations for a consideration. When we say
consideration, it could be cash or just goodwill. Cash occurs when the consideration is
demandedby, andisprovided by,for-profit organizations.
On theother hand,theconsiderationcould bejust goodwillin thecaseof organizationswhich
are having a social purpose as itscore.Another important aspectof marketingstrategy is that
virtually anything and everything can be marketed. Let us look at the various activities or

end-products that have been considered here. Goods means products, services, events,
experiences, persons, places, properties, entities, information and ideas. All of these can be
marketed.
And, some of these things themselves can be platformsfor marketing. Forexample,anevent
conducted in an exhibition can be a marketing tool. Similarly, an exhibition itself can be a
marketing tool. Theexperienceyoucreate inthe retail showroomis amarketing tool.
Goods can be offered in an event in order to promote the event. Virtually anything can be
marketed therefore, and also, they can be marketed in various combinations, more so when
youwant morecreativityarisingoutof themarketing process.
So, when you look at the firm and the customers, the marketplace is the platform where the
firm and the customers meet with each other and inrespect ofthe intentions,the firmhas the
intention of supply of productsor servicesandthecustomershave thecapability tocreate the
demand. Whensupplyanddemand matchwitheach othersatisfyingthefirm on onehandand
thecustomersontheotherhandrespectively, fulfilmenttakesplace.
Marketplace is at once physical, but also at once nebulous but it isa conceptthatis coreand
central to the marketing strategy. Everyfirm shouldunderstand themarketplace inwhichit is
intending to operate and the way the marketplace is evolving over time. In today’s
contemporary times,marketplaceis bothphysicalandvirtual. It isbrickandmortar as wellas
digital, but in both cases the physicality or the physical nature of the marketplace and the
digital natureof themarketplacearevery real.
They are tangible in terms of the promotion of theproducts aswell asthe considerationsthat
could arise there from. Marketplaces again can bevery limitedtypes ofmarketplaces or very
pervasive types of marketplaces. And, you have as one example ryot bazaar (or, farmers’
market). It is a very physical limited marketplace andprobablygettingoperatedonly onceor
twice a week. On the other hand, if youlookatdigital marketplacesthat existtoday,they are
all pervasiveand theyareuniversal.

(ReferSlide Time: 04:12)
Let us look at the traditionalmarketplaces. AsIsaid earlier, amarketplace isonein whichan
interaction for cash consideration takes place and it happens between the sellers and the
buyers. Along with the evolution of the trade-based economy, the marketplaces have also
evolved over centuries and, in each case, each format supplemented rather than eliminated
theother.
The established ones kept on proliferating one after the other and all of these have been
physical marketplaces in the traditionalframe ofreference. You cansee variousmarketplaces
that are existing: the guys who sell their agricultural produce, vegetables, and fruits, they
constitute one type of marketplace. The milk vendor who provides milk to you or whenyou
take themilkfrom themilk vendorsplaceisanothertype ofmarketplace.
The banking system, the bank floor where the cash is dispensed against checks is a
marketplace. The kirana store is a marketplace; the modern super market is a marketplace;
the ATM is a marketplace; the mall is a marketplace; the theatre where all of us enjoy a
movie is a marketplace. Therefore, there are number of ways in which the traditional
marketplace can be viewed and it is also fascinating to see how the traditional marketplaces
haveevolved.
There used to be a time when bullock cart used to go around with goods or agriculture
produce,and it constituted amobilemarketplace.Today,youhave movingtrucks whichserve

as the traditional, but physical marketplaces in a contemporary avatar. The marketplaces
rangefrom institutionalplatforms toself-entrepreneurialones.
And, most of the traditional marketplaces that I have shown here are a combination of
individualized self-entrepreneurship as well as formal entrepreneurship in terms of kirana
stores, supermarkets, theatres, malls, etcetera. Marketing makes the marketplace effective in
termsof fulfilling thebuyer–sellermotivations. It isa device,itis aconstruct, for aggregating
thesellersand buyersthrough thedemand andsupply mechanismin oneplace.
(ReferSlide Time: 06:39)
Now, let us look at the digital marketplaces. Over the last two decades there has been an
explosion of the existence of digital marketplaces, thanks to the telecommunication and the
Internet technologies. These have radically redefined the marketplace and these also have
been accompanied by creative business models that are aided by digital technologies. In the
past there was no way other than going to a hospital or a clinic or the general physician’s
officeto getmedicalconsultation.
But today you can have an app called Apollo 24 7 and have medical consultations through
video; you can also upload your diagnostic reports and get near ‘virtually physical’
consultation through the doctor. One can name: Paytm, Pharmeasy,Dunzo,Audible, Spotify,
Transport Exchange Group, Carbon Trade X change, Wazirx (which is the crypto currency
marketplace). These are all digital marketplaces which have taken deep roots in the Indian
economic systemaswellasthe globaleconomic system.

So, these marketplace transformations have moved from aggregation and disintermediation
model to value added solution models and, in doing so, they are bringing together multiple
processes for greater customer experience. Purely digital platforms are adding physicaltobe
able toprovidevaried experience.
Similarly, physical companies are adding digitalmarketplaces sothat theyareable tocater to
the millennials’ requirements as well as the instant supply (or instant gratification)
requirements. So, both ways there is a hybrid model that is emerging which will satisfy the
requirements of thewidest possiblesectionof population.
(ReferSlide Time: 08:33)
And when we speak about demand, demand is not just one singular word, demand has got
many facets, many nuances. Therefore, a good marketing strategy needs to identify the
different types of demand and it also must come up with appropriate solutions for the
appropriate typesof demand.
There are eight types of demand that you can envisage in the marketplace. The first is
negative demand,that is,consumersjust dislikethe productorservices.Consumersmay even
pay to avoid the product or service. A typewriter may have a vintage value, but it is not a
product that is indemand.In fact,people maybe willingto paysomethingtomove outof the
typewritersyndrome.

Similarly, a telex machine if you have and if you want to offer to the customer, customer
would not like to have. In fact, not to have a teleprinter but to have a fax machine, the
customers may be willing to pay a premium which is in a way translating to a negative
demand for the established product and the price premium on a new product whichincludes
thenegativityfor theold typeof product.
Secondly, there could be non-existentdemand that is,however, thereasintrinsicdemand, but
customers are just unaware of the demand. Consumersdonotbelievethat therecan everbea
need or a product of that nature and start-up companies aregoingtoexcelinthis fieldthat is
trying to identify theneedswhichconsumers themselvesareunawareof.
And, also position products whichcustomersneverthought theywouldbeexisting awireless
bank that is portable electricity inamanner ofspeakingwasnevera usagebyconsumers, but
oncetheconsumers seetheproductthat non-existentdemand becomesexistentdemand.
The third one is the latent demand–consumers feelthe need,but cannotexpress. Consumers
think such demand cannot be fulfilled. For example, lookingat theoperating systemwegive
several instructions in terms of the drop-down bars, in terms of the selection of the required
instructionand finally,clicking theinstructionfor the delivery.
And, many times when we do that, we think why cannot our thoughts be straight away
translated through the computer to the required action, but we feel that this is not going to
happen, at least not in the next few years. But if someone were to get a mechanism of the
CPU as well as the keyboard in such a manner that the thought can be translated if not
through the thought itself by at least by minimal expression then this latent demand may be
fulfilled andit couldbe abreakthrough product.
The fourth one is declining demand. Consumers lose interest in the product, and the need
itself becomes less relevant. In times whenyoucansend thedocumentsself-scanned through
a mobile and transmitted through the mobile network, consumers do not feel the need for
having a separatefacsimilemachine. So,there isadeclining demandfor facsimile machines-
that is why all-in-one computingdevices aretrying tosomewhatstabilizethedemand for that
particularactivity.
The fourth type of demand could be irregulardemand - thatis thedemand whichis seasonal,
cyclical and which occurs in an unpredictable manner. Such demand is random and quite

unpredictable. There are certain products where the seasonality plays a very big role.
Cooking oils have high demand during the festival seasons. Similarly, sweets and snacks
have very high demand during the festival seasons; flowers will have certaindemand during
thewedding seasons.
So, irregular demand is part of the nature for certain types of productsandservices.Another
type of demand is the full stable demand - that is, these are products and services which are
required at all points of time in a year: rice, and other groceries are staple items that are
required at all times of theyear. And, consumers encourageextensions andvariationsthereof
because theywouldnotlike tosee thesameproductover andover again.
They need the same product, but they would like to see it in different variants. That is why
you canhavedifferent typesof ready-to-eatfoodscoming up,ready-to-cook foodscoming up
and soon.
Then there is the concept of overfull demand - demand thatconsumers keep askingfor more
than that can be provided. Overflowing demand masks megatrends that couldarise whenthe
companies offer superior promotions or when the companies succeed in providing one very
interesting feature in a product consumers flock to get that product. So, there tends to be an
excess of demand over supply and that gives an impression that an overfull demand is
occurring. On the other hand, it could be an extension of the product lifecyclein whichcase
the mega trend of this particular product getting replaced by a superior product may not be
recognized.
And, there could also be deviant demand that should not be actually there, but exists.
Consumers chase incorrect product descriptions in this particular category. Sin products -
they constitute an excellentexample ofdeviantdemand. Theyshouldnot bethereat allin the
marketplace or in thesocialsystem.However,they arethereandthey keepincreasingin their
demand profiles.
So, there are eight types of demands that we can think of negative demand, non-existent
demand, latent demand, declining demand, irregular demand, full demand, over-full demand
and deviant demand. Each of these demand types requires an appropriate marketing strategy
to fulfil.

(ReferSlide Time: 15:00)
But, understanding marketing is notjust understanding demand.We also mustunderstand the
market in termsof whatsustains themarket. Asupply base isamarket, ademand base isalso
a market, an individual is a market, and a society is also a market. So, you can thinkof four
different types of markets and a fifth dimension of market which is run by the public
administration of thegovernment.
The four types of marketsareresourcemarkets, consumermarkets, intermediary markets and
manufacturer markets. Now, resource markets aretheones whichprovidethe basicresources
for things to happen in the socio-economic system. Consumer markets are the ones which
absorb the products and services that are provided, but without aresourcemarketcompanies
will not havethewherewithalto producetheproductsor offerthe services.
So, resource market, be it the financial system, be it the bank or anything else, is the key to
establishing the viability and the circularity of the marketing system. Then we have
manufacturer markets. The existence of consumer markets is fulfilled only when the
manufacturers havethecapabilitythrough its marketplacesto provideproductsandservices.
In doing so, as I said, they utilize the resource markets for financing. Similarly, consumer
markets utilize the money factors that come fromthe resourcemarketsto sustaintheirability
to buy products. Then we have intermediary markets and those intermediary markets are
pass-through markets: the distributors, the CFA agents, the retailers, the universal
marketplaces thattheportals arethee-marketplaces –theseareallintermediary markets.

They bring together the customers andsuppliers. Theylisttheproducts andservicesandtake
the demand and fulfil the demand. And, governing all of these things are the government
markets - the government markets lay down the broad rules and regulations by which these
four markets canoperate.
And, because these four markets are earning profits, generating wealth and because the
governments have to serve the society, they collect the taxes from the variousmarkets. And,
while collecting the taxes they also provide services. They collect the tax for the water
services,but theyalsoprovide thewaterservices.
So, the structure of flows in the modern exchange economy is not simple as a manufacturer
producing product and a customer buying it. There are a greater number of markets that are
involved in this market exchange economy of the modernworld. Theimportantaspect inthe
moderneconomy isthateverymarket transactionhasa taxcontribution tothe government.
In the past, many layers of the markets have been avoiding or evading taxes. But, with the
introduction of GST goods and services taxes, we areseeingthat lotmorecompanies andlot
more entities are contributing to the government in terms of the taxes for the products and
servicestheyselland therevenues theyearn.This isawelcomedevelopment.
(ReferSlide Time: 18:35)
The core marketing interactions are a simple set of interactions. These relate to the industry
and the market. The industry is nothing but a collection of sellers - rather a collection of

producers and sellers - and market is a collection of buyers, rather acollection of consumers
and buyers.
Now,theinteractionsarein termsof thecommunication,the goodsandservicesprovided,the
money that is received and the information that is exchanged. Without information being
transparent and being in a communicated state the market cannot understand what the
industry offers.Similarly, withoutinformationan industrycannot understandwhatthe market
needs. Communicationmediumfor the informationisextremelyimportant.
And, the simple marketing system as I have presented hereisat thecoreof all themarketing
activities that takes place. But, over aperiodoftimewhat hasemergedis that withtheaccess
to the Internet as wellassocial mediatheamount ofinformation thatis available evenfor the
trivial marketing exchange systems or for the elaborate market exchange systems has grown
atan exponentialfashion.
Given that any interaction is a marketing introduction, informationis avery importantfactor
that influences both supply and demand. So, in the design of the marketing strategy due
emphasis must be placed on the design of an informationsystemthat helps theconsumers as
wellastheindustry inthe process.
(ReferSlide Time: 20:25)
So, what are the core marketing concepts which we need to look at? In every marketer’s
lexicon and practice there are certain core concepts of marketing and they are relevant for

marketing aswellasfor business development.What aretheneeds, wants anddemands;what
are the target markets and how do I position my products and services and what kind of
segmentationcanI look for.
The actual offerings and brands that the consumer requires and the company isable tooffer;
the channels through which the products can be offered – an automobile company offers its
products through the dealerships. More recently companies such asOlahave started offering
the automobile products through the digital channels as well. An edible Oil Company offers
its productsthrough theretailersandin somecases throughthe wholesalers.
So, the marketing channels vary depending upon the nature of the product and the nature of
the industry as well as the nature of the consumers. The other core marketing concept is the
paid, owned and earned media, that is, media planning is an important aspect of marketing
impressions andengagements–wetalk about footfallsintoa mall.
Similarly, in the context of the advertising in terms of the digital, marketplace impressions
count, theeyesightscount,andthe clickscount. Thefootfallswhichareconverted intoactual
engagement which again is converted into actual purchase - they are all core marketing
concepts. The satisfaction the customer derives from the purchase transaction and the
impressions thecustomercarries theseareagain importantconcepts.
The value that gets generated out of a marketing transaction is of paramount importance
because satisfaction may be temporary, but the value would last through the life of the
product, and last through the entire usage of the product by the customer. Satisfaction is
derived whenacustomer getsthe requirementfor aproductor service fulfilled.
The satisfaction may be enhanced if the customer believes that he has got a good deal.
However,thewaytheproductoperates thevalue hederives fromthe productisthe onethat is
going to stay with the consumer. So, value as well as satisfaction are important. Then,
marketing depends very much on supply chain to be able to supply the products.TheJust in
Timesupply,theabilityto meettheSKU diversityis animportant aspectof marketing.
Marketing is not just about the company; marketing is also about competition. You have to
judge your competition; you have to imagine what the competitors would do and then have
your positioning done. And, even if that is done successfully, competition also could reflect

similar approach or have a superior approach. Therefore, you should be dynamic and
responsive tothecompetitors.
Cooperation and collaboration – cut-throat competition is never good, at the same time
cartelisation is also bad. Cartelisation isactually injuriousto consumerinterest.But, between
cartelisation which is injurious to consumers and cut-throat competition where every player
goes to any extent to reduce prices, and therefore, reduces industry viability there will lie a
golden mean where implicit understanding of the markets requirements and the industry’s
real dynamics are appreciated by the various players. And, they play within the rangewhich
ensures some kind of viability for theindustryto keepdevelopingnewproductsout ofprofit,
to keep developing new products and also ensure that reasonable competition exists, so that
thecustomersgetthebestdealspossible.
And finally, there is the marketing environment. The marketing environment is dedicated to
and dictated by the consumer interests and the governmental actions respectively. In the
context of the food prices soaring up, the government takes certain actions. The export
markets arecurbedor windfall taxesareimposedorexportdutiesareimposed.Therefore,the
marketing environment which was earlier open in terms of the domestic market as well as
exportmarkets getschanged.
Sugar industry has faced that situation. Export markets were curbed so that sugar can be
offered to the domestic markets, that is the difference government policy could make.
Similarly, when the prices of grains shoot up or prices of imported crude oil shoots up, the
government makes certain moves which will reduce the ability of the private sector or the
suppliers eveniftheyarein thepublic sector toprofiteer.
Government also has got certain other tools at its behest which can be used: for example,
windfall tax - if the consumers are affectedbythe highprices, thenpricingcan bemoderated
by the use of windfall taxes. That is, whenthecrudeoil refiningcompanies gettheir crudeat
very low prices, but they sell at very high prices and if they are profiteering because of the
changes in the exchange rates, then there is the potential for governments to step in and say
that you are earning above normal profits. And therefore, we will take this away. In fact,
crude oil companies the world over with ONGC here or Shell abroad were always in the
established infrastructure and in a slow and stable kind of mode. But after the
Russia–Ukraine war and the upsetting of the overall global oil markets, the crude oil

companies and the oil exploration companies have started making windfall profits. And,
those windfall profits are corrected by the governments through windfall taxes and other
mechanisms.
Therefore, the marketing environment which was stable suddenly moved into a very
exhilarating situation for the manufacturers and the crude explorers, but again has become
more stable because of the governmental interventions. So, marketing environments keeps
changing. Marketing management covers all of these things so that the firms can do
businesses ina propermanner withtheircustomer groups andfulfil theirneeds.
(ReferSlide Time: 27:31)
So, we talked about the marketing universality, but there are many universes in the market.
Only when you explore your market you will understandwhat kindofmarkets existfor your
company. At the overall level you have global markets; the entire world is one market for
you. But at the same time, you have local markets, even hyper-local markets, youhave state
levelmarkets, youhavenational marketsand youhaveregional markets.
SAARC is a regional market that is combination of all the South Asian States. India is a
national market, Nepal is a national market, Andhra Pradesh is astatemarket, Tamil Naduis
a state market and local markets are your districts, your community, your neighbourhood
etcetera. So, local becomes larger, companies move into national companies, which in turn
moveinto export-orientedcompanies andfinally,even becomespecialeconomiczones.

Global supply chains based on outsourcing and offshoring have created new marketing
universes for companies. Earlier, companies used to produce within the nation, manufacture
within the nation and market within the nation. Today, the world is an entirely universalized
place accessible for every company for the supply chain, as well as for the marketing value
chain.
Governments all overareencouraging outsourcingandoff-shoring aswell asin-licensingand
in-sourcing and this has led to a ripple effect in terms of the development of global markets
alongwith localmarkets.
(ReferSlide Time: 29:13)
To understand this concept of marketing better we should also understand that there is a
marketing chain or a supply chain whichever way you look at it, which influences the
development of market. And, in most of these chains, cooperatives and government
intermediaries operate. Here is the supply chain for coffee which I have presented. Supply
chainstendto bemarketing chainsdepending uponhowyouview thechain.
For someone who is producing coffee beans it is a supply chain, but for a coffee
manufacturing company, it is a marketing chain. In many products and many markets
cooperatives and government intermediaries help push the marketplace canvas. Now, the
coffee seeds or the coffee beans are grown in the farms and the farmers are involved at the
ground level. They grow and harvest the coffee beans and typically they cannot sell this
straight toStarbucks.

The farmers sell the beans to fair tradecooperativesthat exist,andthen thecoffee iswashed,
dried and packaged for shipment. And, there would be alternative trading organizations that
transport beans to the developed world and then coffee is made through those coffee beans
and sold directly or via retail channels and you get your coffee. So, you will find that
intermediation through governmental interventions is very much there in any country
wheneverfarm producehappensto bethecoreinput toavalue chain.
In reality, the actual supply chain tends to be more involved and more complex than the
above. Depending upon the nature of the country’s economy, the number of layers between
the production and the ultimate consumption of coffee could be many, and that is where
cooperatives play a very bigroleindisintermediation, ensuringproperproductionand supply
and alsoensuring thatproperprice discoverytakesplacefor the farmers.
(ReferSlide Time: 31:33)
Another aspect of marketing is that it has to be holistic. You cannot have marketing which
looks at only one part of the overall marketing paradigm. You need to have internal
marketing capability, an integrated marketing capability, a performance marketing capability
and arelationship marketing capability.Allof thesethings actin togetherness.
Everybody focusesonperformance marketing sayingwhat ismarketing achievinginterms of
the sales revenue, brand and customer equity, the ethics, the environmentand thesocio legal
aspects, but for the performance marketing to be effective fundamentally you need to have

good internal marketing approach. Not only the marketing department, but also the senior
management andotherdepartmentsmust bemarketing focused.
In an earlier session, we discussed the differences between the production oriented
organization and the marketing oriented organization, we concluded that while productionis
very important, the orientation towards marketing provides the company with a broader
canvas and a different way of functioning which provides more sustainability to the
organization. So,internal marketingis important.
Similarly, we need to have integrated marketing, that is marketing which integrates all the
four Ps which we have considered earlier and ensures that the customers are communicated
with in an appropriate manner. And, similarly, the customer’s requirements and experiences
are communicated in an appropriate manner to the company and how does that happen? It
happens when thereisa good relationshipbetween thecompany or itsrepresentatives andthe
buyersor theconsumers.
And, inthis relationshipmarketing all ofusareinvolved fromthe organization sideas wellas
from the customer groups side – customers, employees, channel partners, the financial
community, all of these entities are involved. When all the four are seen together the
company will have holistic marketing happening. The job of the marketing manager will be
effective whentheemployeessee it more thanjust asa functionaltask.
(ReferSlide Time: 33:48)

I spoke about the 4 Ps of marketing mix and this is the fundamental basis for marketing to
function – product, price, promotion and place. 4 Ps occupy an important role in marketing
theoryand practice.Although developeddecadesago,the 4Psconstructis stillrelevant.
When you talk about product it is not just a homogeneous product it is the variety of the
products, the quality of the product, the design features of the product, the brand name, the
packaging, the sizes in which the products and the packs are offered, the services that come
alongwith theproduct,the warrantiesandthe returns.
Manytimes, youwill findthat theAMC (thatis, theAnnualMaintenanceContract) isoffered
for an extended period; many automobile companies have enhanced their warranties to as
high as 3 years or 5 years. Many whitegoods companies offer 3-year warranties for an
additionalmoney.
Similarly, smartphone makers offer protection for displayscreens atsmall incrementalvalue.
These are all the ways in which products are enhanced in the marketing domain. Then you
have the price. Price itself is not one singular factor. There is a list price or MRP, there are
discounts, there are allowances, there is a payment period that is provided, there are credits
that areprovided,therearecash backs andexchangevalues,trade-invaluesthat areprovided.
Therefore, the net price can be modified depending upon the various parameters that are
offered by the manufacturers as part of the marketing action. Thenyoualso havepromotion.
The promotion could be in terms ofsales promotionatthe pointof sales;advertisingthrough
various media that are available – radio, television, social media; sales force which interacts
with the customers and makes the marketing pitch; the public relations that happen at the
company leveland,in somecases,at theproductlevel.
Direct marketing that is done that is you get the e-mail addresses and the numbers of the
customers and then you keep sending the marketing messages; the trade-in that occurs
whenever you introduce a new product you make an attractive offer saying that if you are
going to upgrade your product you get much better value in exchange that is trading. In
addition to the normal trades that occur all through the products life and then the loyalty
points. Thesearethepromotional tools.
Then you have place that where do you sell the product. You may like to sell the product
through the channels with you being completely distant or you could be present in the

channels, you could own certain space in the retail malls and market yourproduct.You may
walk into let us say Reliance Fresh, butcertain shelvescould beownedbythe manufacturers
who are displaying their products and there could be a marketing representative selling the
products.
It frequently happens in the white goods. Dyson may have its own promotional person;
Whirlpool may have its own promotional person. So, channelsareone,butwho coversthose
channels, how the channels are covered is another important aspect. There could be
assortments, there could be different locations, where the channels are located where the
points of salearelocated, howthe inventoryis stored,doyouhaveonly two–threeproducts,
whetheryouhaveonly two –threestock units ofthe products.
These are all decisions that are made as part of your marketing strategy and the transport
logistics depending upon the stocking policy you also need to have a logistics policy. Any
marketing strategy should include all the 4 Ps in a comprehensive manner and it should be
checkedout andfinalized beforeamarketing strategy isrolled outinthe marketplace.
(ReferSlide Time: 37:49)
In one of the earlier slides, I talked about 4 Ps getting supplemented by the 4 Vs. There is a
clear rationale for supplementingthe 4Pswhichareproduct,place,promotionand pricewith
the new age marketing mix.These arethe4Vsthat type purposeoneValidatedexperience.It
is not enough. You have a product that is saleable. You also musthave validatedexperience.

This is one of the reasons why user experiences are become extremely important, user
reviews arebecomingextremelyimportant.
The second is the velocity. It is not enough you have a place; you should have dynamismin
the place it is not enoughyouhave ashelftheremust bevelocity ofcirculationof productsin
the shelf if you have long dated products, if youhave productswhicharenearthe expirylife
people will not be interested. The velocity of product movement is extremely important in
everyplace.
And, the third aspect is the promotion. What is vendor’s responsibility? Is vendor’s
responsibility ending withthe saletothe retailerandexpecting thatthe retailerwill doagood
job or the vendor should be present in some form or the other and see that the products are
displayed properly, and the features are explained properly. That is why inmanysuperstores
people have promoters from themanufacturerswho areguiding thecustomersina littlemore
detail thanthesalesperson ofthe retailshop isable todo.
And, the fourth one as I explainedearlierit isnot justthe pricevalue over lifetime.AsIsaid,
each of these 4 Vs have requirements. Customers need validated experience more thanmere
functionality. Point of sale is now more widespread than a dealer point in the circular
economy production and consumption must be responsible. Purchase cost plus lifecycle
operating cost minus trade in price when computed at a present value is going to determine
thevalue overlifetime.
Therefore,there iscomplex arithmeticinvolved, thereis also perceptivejudgmentinvolvedin
the 4 Vs construct that I have proposed. And, this is the new evolution of marketing
management, I wouldsuggestthat inthe formulationof marketingstrategy youmust notonly
confine yourselfto the4Ps butyoumust extend yourselfinto the4Vswithout losing trackof
the4Ps.

(ReferSlide Time: 40:21)
We talked about the internal marketing environment, what is that internal marketing
environment? It is actually a network of divisions, a network of functions, a network of
individuals that constitutes the firm’s internal environment. Why do we call certain external
stakeholders as part of the internal environment?Thatisbecause withoutthem theprocess of
selling, marketing,productionwill nottake place.
So, the firm which is the one seeking growth is the marketing environment for the firm.But
the overall larger marketing environment occurs when the suppliers are taken into account,
the distributors are taken into account, the dealers are integrated, the customers are kind of
listed and calendarized and when financiers are made part of the overall marketing
environment system.
So, the firm definitely seeks growth it is driven by the infrastructure, but suppliers are
required for mutual business benefit. Distributors could occur in terms of different channels
of distribution. Dealers could exist based on alliances. Customers generally are need driven,
but theyarealsoinfluencedbythe demographicsthat occurfromtimetotime.
Then you have financiers who seek returns on the investments made. The study of the
internal and external environment is very much in the scope of the structural analysis of the
industry whichwewill coverat alaterstage.

(ReferSlide Time: 41:56)
The external marketing environment is a little more complex. It is a key driver of the
marketing opportunity and change. Many of the external constituents I mentioned in the
earlier slide may be seen in the first go as external; however, they are all internal to the
firm’s ecosystem. When we talk about today’s marketing context, we do not talk about just
thefirm and thecustomer.
We talk about an entire ecosystem that is helping the firm develop better products and
services and helping the customers achieve better customer fulfilment. And, in all of those
entities I have mentioned, from vendors to financiers,all are important. Butthe realexternal
marketing environment is something to do with factors which are totally beyond the control
of thefirm’secosystem.
The demographics, the population, the economic levels, the recessionary trends or the
inflationary trends or the buoyant trends – these all constitute the demographicenvironment.
Then you have the economic environment, whether we are going to be a 5 trillion-dollar
economy in 2030 or 2028 is going to have a significant impact on how we are going to
develop our productsand services.
The socio-cultural environment which is the basic bedrock of a nation, and which is native
and ethnic, is an important external marketing input. Thenaturalenvironment is theresource
based nature of the nation, the consumption patterns, the supply patterns, and the basic
fundamentalfactor resourcesthat existinacountry.

These constitute the naturalenvironment. Theoverall factorcapability of thecountry, andthe
capability of the country in terms of the technology is another important external
environment and it could be transformative. While technology is internal to the company,
within the overall industry and within the overall country there could be technological
capability that is external which must be accessed by the company to be able to make itself
better.
Then you also have the political-legal environment which is susceptibletochange fromtime
to time andthat couldbevery important. Thelevelsofdisclosures thatarerequired, the levels
of debt that the company can take, the levels of debt that a customer entitycantake, they all
constitute apolitical legal environment whichcouldbe susceptibletochange.
So, strategic marketing requires a thorough understanding of how the external environment
will shape itself and how the internal environment can beshaped accordingly,sothat thereis
agood matchbetweenthe externalenvironment andthe internal environment.
(ReferSlide Time: 44:41)
So, the conceptual evolution of strategic marketing or business development has been as
follows. The production concept has been the oldest and it has been in existence from the
Ford Model T days. That is, the company will standardize; that is the company will
manufacture and supply standardized products at the lowest cost possible and it will also
undertakemassdistribution tobeable tofulfil theconceptin aneffectivemanner.

Then, came the feature diversification concept. It was the General Motors’ model. Diversify
the features, enhance the quality. You segment the markets and make customers more
fulfilled andalso havegreater competitiveness vis-a-visthestandardized production.
Then came the selling concept, that is even if you produce more, the goods will not be
automatically sold. You need to push the company and yourself to sellmoretoits customers
and the logic here is that enhanced sales will lead to better economics. Then came the
marketing concept which says that the needs probably are notdiscovered bythecustomer so
well.
So, we need to have an influencing approach to market development - customer oriented
influencing approach. Implicit in that is an interest in building alastingrelationship between
the company and the consumer, between the product and the requirement so that there is
loyalty to the product, and loyalty to the brand. So, brand building came as a important
constituent of themarketing concept.
Now, we have the strategic marketing concept which is a very important adjunct tobusiness
development that is predicting or shaping mega trends of the future to co-create novel
customer experiences. When you had computers, desktop computers, and all-in- one
computers pre-COVID we had screen sizes at best of 24 inches, but when work from home
started weneededto accommodate morevirtualsites withinthe computerdisplayframe.
Today’s standardpremium isat thelevelof 34inchesor37inchesof screensize,so thatthere
could be greater clarityin seeingmoresites.So, this isamega trendthat happened duringthe
COVID time which somecompanies couldforeseeand utilizeandsome companies couldnot
eitherforeseeor utilize.
So, whichever company forecast the mega trend and gearedupits capabilitiessucceeded. As
another example, Tesla was able tounderstandthe importanceofsemiconductors andcreated
hardware and software that could last through the demand requirement for semiconductors.
Many other automobile companies could not predict the mega trend of semiconductors and
let the automobiles be somewhat dated in terms of the experience. So, seamlessstrategicfit,
internal and external, is required for understanding these mega trends and undertaking
strategic marketdevelopment–that is theconceptual evolution.

(ReferSlide Time: 47:58)
So, what is this strategic marketing which is an important adjunct of business development?
It is a process of aligning themarketing functionof anorganization withthelong termvision
and mission of the organization so that the firm secures competitive advantage in the short,
mediumand longterm.
And, how does this occur? In the short-term, lotof importancehasto belaid onregularsales
and marketing to be able to secure the currentbusiness, maximizerevenue andprofits. Inthe
medium term, you understand how this business can evolve into a different kind of business
or how anewkind of business couldbecomeyour futurecobusiness.
In that term you havea numberof emergingbusinesses that aregoingtoseed themselvesand
grow along with your core business, and there will also be much greater influence and
importance of market share and revenue share as the metrics along withrevenueshareprofit
share.
But, in the long-term strategic marketing and strategic business development we look at
futuristic businesses and value creation. To be successful strategic marketing has to work
alongside strategicplanningto leadthe company onlongtermsustainablegrowth.

(ReferSlide Time: 49:18)
And in this, customer centricity plays very important role. As we are aware, every
organization is a pyramid, we have the employees in large numbers at the bottom and the
senior executive at the top. The concept of organizational pyramid in a traditional
pyramidical organization can be viewed in terms of customer centricity as follows. It is
expected the that the frontline officers, and the frontline sales executives are the ones who
will deal withthecustomers.
The top management remains in a directorial position through the middle management and
through other frontline people. So, the customer contact or the customer centricity occurs at
the bottom of thepyramid levelthatis thetraditional organizationalpyramidwhichis applied
to customer centricity. But, in a true customer-oriented organizational pyramid, the pyramid
is inverted, that is the top management takes the lead in meeting the customers, in
understanding thecustomerpreferences.
The middle management, the frontline people and the customers themselves get included in
this process. The customers are considered as an extended part of the company’s ecosystem
which is why in one of my other courses I have disputed Michael Porter’s theory that
customers constitute a competitive force. I proposethat customersarethecollaborative force
for an organization.

Top management must be taking the lead to interact with the customers and the customers
themselves must be included in the organizationalpyramid,if notin aformal sense,butinan
informal sense.So, thecustomercentricityenvelopes theorganization atall levels.
We had a classic example of Azim Premji: when he was in the executive chairman role for
Wipro, he was taking time to visit every company which was a Wipro customer or in some
cases which were not Wipro customers, but had otherIThardwareand softwareof important
dimension. So,that iscustomercentricity.
When my previous global organization had a new CEO who took over, that CEO made it a
point to first make a world tour, understand thecustomer feedback fromwhateverpartof the
globe the product is positioned and come up with a strategy so that the customers can be
responded toand theirneeds fulfilledina muchbetter fashion.
So, when you have customer centricity percolatingand permeatingallthe organization roles
as per the inverted pyramid model, it becomes a cultural anchor. It is not just a couple of
wordswhich arementioned,butit becomesacultural anchor.
(ReferSlide Time: 52:28)
So, whenyouhavethecultureof customer centricitywhatshould eachdepartmentdo? Letus
look at R&D, they spend time meeting customers and listening to their products. Typically,
an R&D engineer believes that his time has to be spent in the laboratory. He would think
aboutinvolving themarketing andotherfunctionsat best, butnotthe customers.

The design thinking process as an example says that the R&D engineer along with the
various other functionalities must spend time with the customer to identify and find out the
problems and provide the best-of-the-class solutions. So, theconstant customerinteraction is
an importantinput to R&Ddevelopingbetter productsandservices.
Purchasing people proactively search for the best suppliers possible and they develop
relationships with more reliable and high quality suppliers and they do not compromise
quality for price savings because they understand that quality is an extremely important part
of thevalue equationthatwe areaimingatas ahigh-classmarketing organization.
Then you have manufacturing. Manufacturing people invite customers to visittheirplantsso
that they go with a good impression of the technological capability of the company and in
that process, they may even get some ideas fromthe customersinterms ofthe customization
of the products. And, for marketing of course, itis a100percentday job.They needto study
consumerneeds andwantsinwell-defined marketsegments.
Field visits are a must; customer visits are a must. They must do brand audits they must not
be happy with just the metrics but they must understand the brand loyalty that is underneath
the metrics that are getting achieved and they must also interact with the rest of the
departments andaskthem tobecustomer centric.
So, while R&D, purchasing, manufacturing and various other departments have their day
jobs, they cannot forget about the customer centricity and the needto bephysicallyinvolved
with the customers in one way or the other. And, of course, for the marketing people
customer centricityis100 percentaday job.

(ReferSlide Time: 54:51)
Similarly for sales – it has the direct and perpetual interface with customers and in the short
term they must have customer centricitydriving everyoperation. Atthesalespoint theyhave
direct experience of fulfilling the customer needs.Theywill see thecustomer responseto the
actual purchase process and they should not see itas onerupeeintothe company,rather they
shouldsee it asonemoreopportunity toservethe customer.
Therefore, the customer feedback ontheselling transactionisextremelyimportant. Similarly,
logistics have got a lot of importance. In many organizations, supplying theproductinsmall
lots isthechallenge.People wouldsaythat they wouldnotservice thelowvolume ordereven
if it comeswithcash.
Because the company’s logistics people do not have the capability to send small lots intoan
interior place,theywould prefertoaggregate thedemand. Inthis process, theywouldlose the
customer loyalty and customer may even switch at the next available opportunity to another
supplierwho hasbetterlogistics.
So, logistics may look at a hub andspoke model tobeable tomeetthe customerdemandsall
across the nation in a helpful manner. Similarly, accounting product line-wise profitability
statements, and market segment-wise profitability statements help the management
understandhow theproductscan becostedandpriced.

Similarly, activity based costing can help understand how idle times and efficient times
influence the product costing and therefore, they will be able to make the necessary
corrections in the costing. And, in setting the pricing parameters, finance should understand
the market dynamics and the marketing requirements. In every environment it is not that
products getsoldautomatically.
Today, when the inflation is high, customers need additional financing support. Similarly,
employees who are not well off require financing support. There isalways arequirement for
people to upgrade their cost of life in an environment where the newer products are
introduced with higher prices. But that needs to be cushioned by providing appropriate
financialarrangements.
In India, the mortgages for houses are of 10 years or 12 years period whereas, in the West
mortgages are of 30years, or40years.This hasenabledthose economiesexperiencehousing
booms from time to time, at least provide universal housing for all the employed people the
moment they enter into the organizations and the momenttheystart earningsalaries.It isnot
so inIndia.So, financeisan aspectofcustomer centricityfor many organization.
Similarly, public relations – selling the product is important, marketing the product is
important but marketing thecompany andalso bringing outthe goodthings thatthe company
does is important. So, if the company is doing great things in terms of the corporate social
responsibility, the public relations arm or the corporate communicationsarmofthe company
shouldbring outthose thingsinto theopen.
Similarly, frequent interactions between social groups and thecompany areimportant. When
typical events occur such as a diabetes day or a heart day or any other day which relates to
health, companies can step in and promote public awareness of the disease state and the
wellness requirements to avoid the disease state. These are all the contributions towards the
customersthat reflectcustomer centricityonthe partofthe companies.
A firm will certainly benefit when the staff and service functions also work hand in hand,
shoulder to shoulder with the line functions of R&D, production and manufacturing to
display high level of customer centricity, then only the products and services will beof very
high orderand theygenerategreatvalue tothe customers.And, whengreatvalue isgenerated
for thecustomers,thecompany also benefitsa lot.

(ReferSlide Time: 59:10)
So, the options the company has in terms of strategic business development and strategic
marketing are the following.One–the productinterms ofthe features,specifications,utility,
novelty and quality. Second – the marketplace that needs to be addressed in terms of
customers, segments, needs, wants and even desires. Third – pricing, whether it should be
the gross price, the net price, the promotions, the discounts, the trade-ins, exchanges and so
on.
Promotion – the time effort and money spent by the company to communicate about the
product, to understand the customer requirements and align the product and the customer
requirement through information, communication, influencing etcetera. The people that are
deployed by the company in this process of customer connectivity, be it the founders, the
management or thesalesforce, haveacritical role.
And, the places at which we find connectivity with the customers through the distribution,
through the delivery, through the service network, through the pointof saleetcetera.And, all
of these channels are nothing but representatives of the company. Therefore, they also must
be integrated with the company’s value system, so that when somebody goes toaretail shop
for the purchase of a particularproduct,they donotsee theretailer,but theysee thecompany
and thatistheextentto which strategicmarketing mustgo.
These are all great examples of marketingestablishinga brandor growinga companyand its
business. But companies must understand and be cognizant of the fact that competitors also

can do it. So, elevating the game every now and then to higher levels with better products
better marketing, better pricing, better promotion, enhanced peoples skills and more
customized placesarerequired fromtimetotime.
So, with this we come to the end of this lecture. I will be meeting you in the next lecture.
Thankyouvery muchfor your attention.

