BusinessDevelopment FromStart to Scale
Prof.C BhaktavatsalaRao
Department ofManagement Studies
Indian Institute of Technology,Madras
Week-01
Business Fundamentals
Lecture- 02
Marketingand BusinessDevelopment
Hi friends, welcome to the NPTEL course Business Development: From Start to Scale. We
are in week 1 discussing Business Fundamentals. This is the 2nd lectureof theweek andthe
topic todayisMarketingand Business Development.
(ReferSlide Time: 00:30)
Let us look at the definition of marketing as given by AMA. I will read it out for you.
Marketing is the activity, set of institutions, and processes for creating, communicating,
delivering, and exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners, and
society atlarge.Youwill observethat therearethreeclustersof wordshere.
Each is important and each needs to be connected with the other. The first cluster of words
relates to “activity, set of institutions and processes”. These are internal to the organization,
internal to the person - these arecharacteristicsof theorganization andthe marketingperson.
The activity of marketing includes the set of institutions dedicated to marketing and the
processof marketing.

The second cluster of words is “creating, communicating, delivering and exchanging
offerings”. Creating means creating of marketing communication, and creating of marketing
content. Communicating means conveying that to the marketplace, to the individuals in the
marketplace,to theconsumers,andto thecustomersinthe marketplace.
And this communication can be through a variety of means: radio talks, television clips,
digital communication print, media outside flexes, word of mouth,events,exhibitions -there
aremanyways inwhich the marketing contentcanbecommunicated.
Then the third: “delivering”.Delivering meanstheproductsand serviceshavetobe delivered
to the consumer. It could be through a retailer, adistributor, awholesaler,could takeplacein
the mall or could take place in the shop and so on. The third cluster of words relates to
exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners and society. I am
repeating two words from the previous cluster into this. Because these are the products and
services which need to be exchanged in consideration for money. But the cluster here is the
marketplaceof customers,clients, partnersandsociety.
The way you look at it, it could be straightaway a consumer or a group of consumers: for
example, clients and partners or the whole society at large.Onlywhenyoubring togetherall
these clusters of words in logical sequence you can get marketing carried out. Therefore, let
me repeat - marketing is the activity, set of institutions and processes for creating,
communicating, delivering and exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients,
partnersand societyatlarge.
Why am I emphasizing marketing so much? Marketing is being emphasized by me somuch
mainly because without marketing you cannot convey what you intend to offer. Therefore,
marketing is the bridge between you and the consumer, the bridgebetween thecompany and
themarketplace.
Moreover, business development, as I have explained earlier, is an integrative function, it is
not a function that works in a silo. It requires various other disciplines to be a part of it - it
differentiates to be able to deliver its objective of business development. That is why we
focusonmarketing. Wewill also focusonotheradjunctsinlater partsofthis course.

(ReferSlide Time: 04:38)
To put it simply, marketing concept means planning and coordination of all company
activities: which means you are coveringthe entirevalue chain ofthe company.And how are
they coordinated? How are they planned? They are planned and coordinated around the
primary goal of satisfying customer needs; that means, whatever you do in terms of
marketing isfocusedontheconsumer andalso theecosystem that envelopestheconsumer.
And, it is the most effective means to attain and sustain a competitiveadvantage.Thewhole
goal of marketing is not to do something in terms of sales for today,thegoal ofmarketing is
to establish a relationship with the customers, with the market segmentsandwith theoverall
marketplace in such a manner that the company can continue to sell or market its products
and servicestothat marketplace.
So, the concept of marketing is nothing but planning and coordination of all company
activities around the primary goal of satisfying customer needs and work as the most
effective means to attain and sustain a competitiveadvantage.Thekeything istounderstand
the company’s value chain and see how this value chaincan providevalue tothecustomer as
well.
And when the value chain of the customer and the value chain of the company work in
tandem,there wouldbesustainable competitiveadvantage.

(ReferSlide Time: 06:15)
Now, there are market-oriented firms and there are firms which are oriented towards other
functions of an organization. Let us understand what are market-oriented firms. There are
four characteristics of market-oriented firms. First, all departmentsandpersonnel arefocused
on customer needs Two, they develop and adapt products and programs to respond to the
changesin theenvironment.
Third, they always conduct intense market research priortoproductdevelopment andfourth,
they segment markets and position appropriate products with tailored programs. If you look
around and try to find out market-oriented firms you will find plenty of them, of which
Samsungisone firm whichis excellinginterms ofthe smartphonesbusiness.
It looks at the market in terms of various segments, it understands the consumer needs in
terms of their feature requirements as well as the price requirements. As aresult ofwhich, it
keeps developing anumberof productstomeetthe segmentrequirements withdifferentprice
points, featurelevelsand therefore, differentvalue points.

(ReferSlide Time: 07:27)
Production and marketing are the twin engines of any organization or any company. Of
course, there are several other functions which make these things work. In fact, R&D is the
real engine of the company - without R&D developing products the company cannot have
anything tooffer.
But that is also assuming that R&D develops the products the way the production of the
product iscarriedout or the waymarketing ofthe productiscarriedoutyouknow determines
production orientation versus marketing orientation in a company. Now, how are thesefirms
distinguished intermsof thesetwoorations intermsof thesetwoorientations?
I have listed here certain factors in terms of business activity or functionthat isthe leftmost
column. Now, I compare each of these factors in terms of their visibility and character and
characterization in the production-oriented firm vis-a-vis the market-oriented firm. So, in
terms of product offering, the production-oriented firm develops and manufactures products
asper availablecompetencies.
It has already the dies and moulds, it already has the machinery andit wouldliketo keepon
utilizing those facilities to develop products and try to sell them as long as it is possible. If
you look at the Indian automobile industry or any other industry in India prior to
liberalization,theintense effort wastocompletely utilizethe facilities availableand churnout
the products as required by the facility rather than as required by the market whereas, a
marketing-oriented firm develops and manufactures products as per customer needs. Today,

there are frequent model changes, and firms are willing tomodify theirproductionlines,and
willing todevelop through R&Dnewproductsto beable tomeetcustomer needs.
Secondly, in the production-oriented company the product range tends to benarrow. because
you would like to have standardized production. The more you produce, the more cost
effective you are. Therefore, you are likely to be more profitable or you are likely to have
better pricing advantage. But in amarketing-oriented organization theconceptis that product
rangeshouldbe asbroadas possible.
In fact, they would go to theextentof offeringmultiple SKUs(that is,storekeeping units)to
be able to satisfy each and every demand. In respect of pricing, a production-oriented
organization is very focused on costs and margins. Whereas, a marketing-oriented
organization looks at perceived value of the product and they will define the lifecycle cost
and lifecyclevalue of theproductand tryto influencethe pricingstrategy.
Marketing-oriented organizations tend to have superior pricing power compared to the
production-oriented organizations. Similarly, marketing-oriented organizations try to
preimmunize the products: that is, they make the products and their selling avenues more
premium in thelook,feel andexperienceandconsequently thepricing poweris alsosuperior.
In terms of the market segments that are served, a production-oriented firm wants to be in a
homogenous market: that is, a market in which segments are very few, and the customers
have certain common needs. Whereas the marketing-oriented firm is willing to
micro-segmenta marketandgoas heterogenousas possible.
And in terms of product packaging, production-oriented firms see the product packaging as
just an important requirement to protectthe product.Whereas,marketing-oriented firms look
at product packaging as a means for customer appeal additionally. So, when you buy a
pharmaceutical product, some products will be in very plain old-fashioned blisters ie., the
carton in which they are packed would be of relatively flimsy nature, the printing would be
almost completelyblack andwhite andwithnofont selection andsoon.
Whereas a marketing-oriented firm would try to give a better package, would like to give a
blister pack tablet mechanism and give you very clear readable fonts. This is just one
example of howproductpackaging candifferentiatethe production-orientedorganization and
the marketing-oriented organization in terms of appealing to the customer. In terms of

financing, the production-oriented company would like to do nothing with financing they
would say that it is an transaction between the customer and the financing institution. So, a
triangle is formed in production-oriented company, the company producing, the marketing
department and at best a separate financing entity. Whereas, a marketing-oriented
organization sees finance and financial capability of the customer as an important aspect of
driving market growth, expanding the market reach. Therefore, they have either a captive
financingorganization or anetwork financingorganization.
Tata motors, as an example, has Tata capital as its financing arm, Ashok Leyland has got
HLFL, a subsidiary,asafinancingnorm. Severalcompanies intheconsumer goodsindustries
have tie-ups with banksandwithfinancing institutions:for example,Bajaj finance,to beable
to provide financialsupportto customerswhowant tobuynewproducts.
And this level of captive and networked financing is going to be an important determinant
when products are premiumized and when marketing-oriented firms need to and want to
extract valuefrom themarketplace. Thistrendof havingcaptivefinancing isthere virtuallyin
every group. Mahindra has got Mahindra finance, as I said Ashok Leyland and Tata motors
have their own financing arms (Refer Time: 14:02) besides strong financing types with
various otherparties.
Again, this financing need not necessarily be captive; may be, greater capability will arise
when companies are allowed to have multiple financing sources. Similarly, financial
companies will also be more viable when they service products of different
marketing-oriented companies.
And as far as promotion which is an important ingredient of marketing is concerned
production-oriented firms tend to be very technical in terms of their promotion. The
functionality of the product is established and the functionality of the product is
communicated as much as possible. Whereas, a marketing-oriented organization looks atthe
lifecycle value, it creates perceptions around what a product can offer, in terms of value, in
termsof prestige andvariousotherparameters.

(ReferSlide Time: 15:03)
Now, let us look at the methods of market development. There are two types of market
development, which are product-oriented market development and market-oriented market
development. And taking these twodimensions intoconsiderationwecan develop theclassic
product-market grid. Most businesses deploy a hybrid of the four modes of business or
commerceasI haveindicatedhere.
Now, the product dimension can be categorized in terms of existing products and new
products. Similarly, the markets can be categorized in terms of existing markets and new
markets. When you do that, you will get four grids which have different characteristics. If
you are selling existing products in the existing markets, the way growth can come is
predominantlyfrom improved marketpenetration.
Market penetration means you are sellingmoreproductsinthe samemarket; thatmeans,you
aim for higher market share. So, whenever Airtel or Jio talks about increased market share
what they mean is that they are becoming more competitive in the existing marketplace
which isthetelecommunicationusers.
If you have new products which are placed in the existing markets, it means that you are
trying to expand your market andderivegrowth through productexpansion.Themarketplace
is not expanded but your market for the products is expanded because you are offering new
products;Samsungpredominantlydoes that.

It offers newer and newer smartphone product lines: for example, the Galaxy series the A
series, M series, F series and so on. And therefore, there is an inevitable increase in the
market volume as well as the market share. There is the third dimension where the existing
products are put into new markets; when adomestic orientedcompany exportsits productsit
is enteringa newmarket.A companywhich ispredominantlyinthe eastern marketif itwants
to get into the southern and western markets it is putting the same products in the new
markets andderiving growth becauseof theadditional marketcoverage.
There could also be companies whichareputting newproductsinto newmarkets;theywould
decide that this product is appropriate for making anewentryinto anewmarket. Andin this
case, you have growth which is driven by both product expansion as well as market
expansion. These are, therefore, the four methods of market development. Existing products
and existing markets, new products andexistingmarkets, existingproductsand newmarkets,
and new products and new markets. You can also realize that each of these grids require
different typesof competencies.
If you want to have highergrowth orhighermarket shareinthe existingproduct andexisting
market area you need to have probably improved features, higher cost competitiveness and
better selling capabilities. If you want to grow by putting newproductsinto existingmarkets
you need to have better marketing capability and you need to have better selling capability
oncemarketing isdone.
If you want to have existing products put into new markets you got to understand the new
geographies better, you need to have the ability to create new distribution structures, create
new sales forces, incur additional marketing expenditure, etcetera. And if you want to have
new products and newmarketsit tantamounts tovirtually creatinga newbusinessentityright
from R&Dtoultimate marketdelivery.
So, these are the methods of market development and the implications for companies. And
every company as it goes through the growth journeywouldbeadopting theseapproaches in
ahybrid fashion.

(ReferSlide Time: 19:19)
Now, marketing itself is done in different ways. We haveseen how productsandmarkets are
related. Now, we are seeing how the business and the consumer are related. Thanks to the
availability of digital in a universal fashion you have two layers: one is the physical layer
which has been the established brickandmotor type andthesecond is thedigitallayer which
is the new information technology Internet driven and telecommunication driven digital
channel.
Whenyouconsiderthat, you havetwotypes of marketing.One: businesstoconsumer andthe
other: business to business, B2C and B2B, respectively as we call. Now if youaresellingto
the consumer through the layers of the distribution chain that is from the companyit goesto
the wholesaler and from the wholesaler, it goes to the retail it is a B2C conducted in the
physical mode.
On the other hand, if you sell to businesses directly, but through some intermediaries it is
called B2B business at physical level. But the same two business types can be conducted
through digital means as well. D2C business is the business which is conducted by the
company directlywith theconsumer through itsdigital sites.
Today,virtually everycompany hasgota D2Csite.Horlickswhenit introducedgummieshad
a very aggressivedigital siteprogram. Hindustan liverhasits own digitalsite.Virtually every
company has its own digital site apart from placing the products in the Amazons and

Flipkarts of the world. So, this direct consumer marketing is taking the company directly to
theconsumers mindsetaswell astothe consumerpricing actionandpurchasingaction.
In the business-to-business digital mode you have businesses conducted through customer
portals, auction sites and other digital means - these arethefour categories ofmarketing that
areavailable.
(ReferSlide Time: 21:29)
When we emphasize marketing as an essential ingredient or an adjunct to business
development let us also understand what are the differencesor whatarethe characteristicsof
marketing andbusiness development whichwill becontrasted.
Marketing provides market inputs to business strategy. It executes based on the finalized
business strategy, and has short- and medium- term impact on business. Business
development creates a relationship, but it is up to the marketing function to make use of the
relationship that iscreated.Of course,businessdevelopment willbethere tohandholdand to
keep developing the relation further, but it is the marketing department which needs to take
over oncethebusinessdevelopment endsits jobina mannerofspeaking.
Typical example is you have got strategic alliances that are developed between two
companies. One company develops and manufactures products let us say a pharmaceutical
company and there is a company which is buying those products in a different geography.

And a business development executive or a business development leader establishes the
relationship betweenthesetwocompanies.
And how doesbusiness development dothat?It providesstrategicinputs tobusinessstrategy,
it enhances the scope andeffectivenessof businessstrategy, ittranslates thebusinessstrategy
into a workableframework ora workablerelationshipthrough thedistribution alliance.
And as a result of it, it has medium- and long- term impact on business. But this is at a
strategic level or at a conceptual level. But once that relationship is established marketing
needs to be stepping in into this whole framework, it needs to have a steering committee of
understanding the demand on an annual basis or on a 3- year basis, coordinate with the
departments of the company to provide the products, coordinate with the receivingcompany
to understand the market dynamics. And, make sure that the inventorysystemis managedto
the best of benefits for both the partners. So, marketing and business development are
interlinked in terms of the inputs aswell asthe outputsof therespective processes.So,if you
have sales capability which is within the ecosystem of marketingand togetherthey areinthe
larger ecosystem or the broader ecosystem of business development, then the whole
company’s business operations function admirably and that would result in enhanced
revenuesand profitsfor thecompany.
(ReferSlide Time: 24:10)
.
Now, what are the marketing functionalities? In the earlier lecture, I talked about sales and
marketing and also kind of distinguished sales and marketing in terms of they being two

sub-functions within the organizations. But you can also take an overarching view of
marketing which includes everything from the time you contactthecustomer tothe timeyou
keepservicing it intheaftersales lifeofthe customer andtheproduct.
So, it will comprise sales, it will comprise service, it will comprise spare parts, comprise
finance advertising and sales promotion. So, business strategy leads to marketing strategy,
marketing strategy leads to all of these marketing operations which again resultsin revenues
and profits.So, thesearethesix functionalitiesofa goodmarketingsetup inan organization.
(ReferSlide Time: 25:04)
We havelookedatmarketing invariousfacets until now.Let uslookat businessdevelopment
with a similar definition; of course, this is coined by me. Business development is the
activity, set of institutions and processes for identifying medium- and long- term business
opportunities and creating relational frameworks that ensure complementarity and mutual
benefitona sustainablebasis.
Now, let us look at the clusters of words which are here. The first cluster: “activity, set of
institutions and processes”. The activity itself is contacting a partner, explaining the mutual
benefits and so on. The set of institutions refers to the businessdevelopmentdepartmentand
similarly the business development department ofthe otherconstituentto theprocess andthe
process itself could involve mutual visits, exchange of information or even making the first
contact ina third-party location andvariousprocess; this isonecluster.

The second cluster is to understand and identify medium- and long- term business
opportunities and creating relational frameworks. I have not said short term opportunities;
short term opportunities are essentially in the domain of marketing and sales, what business
development needs to look at are the medium- and long- term business opportunities and
creation of a relational framework which will be sustaining over a period of time; this isthe
second clusterof words.
And the third ensures complementarity and mutual benefit on a sustainable basis. That is, it
should be a win-win relationship. The supplier should winandthe receivershouldalso win-
that isthecomplementarity andmutualbenefit andthat shouldbein asustainablemanner.
(ReferSlide Time: 27:02)
So, what are the business development functionalities? It has five essential functionalities.
One, you must identify the macro markets. When you say macro markets which country is
goodfor my productsor whichstate iswaiting toreceive mykindof products.
Identify which product goes into which kind of consumer psychology. So, these are all the
macro market parameters which the business developmentfunctionidentifies: whichcountry
is looking at India as the new manufacturing destination, which country is trying to import
cost-competitive products, which country is trying to implement a China plus one strategy
aggressively.Theseareallthe macromarket parameters.

And once you do that, you should create long term networks. And how do you create long
term networks? By contacting the potential partners, by communicating with them, bybeing
present in their mindset not necessarily with an immediatesaleormarketing view, butwitha
view of establishing a relationship as with,let ussay,drug discovery- youdo10 networks,2
or 3networkswill be successful andlonglasting.
So, you should not say that I need to have only one-on-one relationship between a market
network and the final business opportunity not necessarily,youhaveto lookatlet ussay 100
macro marketsdevelop 10 longtermnetworksor even50long termnetworksandfinally,you
may be ending up with a few alliances. Therefore, the third aspect of business development
functionality istoenhancebusinessthrough alliances.
There are several other ways you can enhance businesses which we will cover in one of the
forthcoming lectures. And you could also create joint ventures as a way of developing the
business or simplymerge withthe companyor acquirethe company.Thethree pointswhich I
have mentioned: alliances, joint ventures and mergers and acquisitions, are methodologies
and tools to solidify the business development relationship that you have been successful in
termsof establishing.
So, how does business strategy impact business development? Business strategy says that I
am not interested in marketing my products. I would like to be only a developer and a
manufacturer, this is the strategy for me. Somebody else may say that I want to meet the
requirement of each and every customer I will meet and I will try to tune mymanufacturing
infrastructure andmy supply chain infrastructureto beable tomeetthat requirement.
So, each company may have a different business strategy and depending upon the business
strategy that you have developed you will pursue a path of business development which is
aligned to that business strategy. Therefore,whethertolookat fewpartnersor manypartners,
whether you look at a joint venture or an alliance, all of these things come under business
developmentbased onthe businessstrategy youhavedeveloped.
And once you do that you integrate the business development network with the ecosystem
that you have in terms of your development, manufacturing and marketing and create atotal
customer value chain and that results in revenues and profits. So, just as marketing had its
own functionalities,businessdevelopment alsohas its ownfunctionalities.

(ReferSlide Time: 30:30)
Now, the roots and roles of business development are discovered and considered in this
particular slide. Companies basically are of two types. One is the established set of
companies the other is the new set of companies. The establishedset ofcompanies againare
of two types. One set wants to improve the business and another set wants to diversify the
business.
And within the companies which arewantingtoimprove thebusinesses therecould besingle
business companies or there could be multi-business companies which are wanting to have
dominance ineverysingle business.Whereas thediversifyingbusinesses typically arealready
in multi businessesand they wanttobe conglomerateseventually.
Companies which are new and which have not been there in the marketplace or in the
industrial arena are again of two types. One set of companies arethose whicharewanting to
secure a niche; that is, they wanttoget atoehold inthemarketplace inthe industrialhorizon.
These are typically the start-up businesses which are the in the initial phase of
commercialization of their wonderfulideasandprototypes.
The second set of companies relate to the companies in the start-up space, but are in the
process of securing multiple niches or in the process of growing their businesses. So,
typically start-up businesses in the ramp-up phase conform to this categorization. So, when
you look at these definitions and when you look at the four examples I have given, you can

see the pathway of business development that has led those companies to become what they
are.
Maruti Suzuki, an established company in the passenger cars in overall terms, but it has
diversified its business with multiple product lines in that area. Reliance industries has
diversified in termsof theindustrialsegments itself -starting withtextiles itwent intoenergy,
retail andtelecomin abigway.
Agnikul is an IIT Madras Research Park incubated start-up and it has decided to secure a
niche in the private space launch vehicle space. A start-up which is wanting to get into
different businesses is exemplified by Swiggy which started as afood deliverycompany, but
then started getting into grocery delivery. Butit wantedto takethe game toanotch higherby
saying thatit wouldoffer everythingina timeframeof 10to30minutes.
So, there is a delivery service spectrum which is being considered by Swiggy. Tomorrow it
could offer medicines, it could offer healthcare services or wherever there is a need for a
delivery Swiggy could enter. It is a new company a start-up company wanting to secure
multiple niches. That is how business development works to enhance the capabilities of a
firm.
(ReferSlide Time: 33:40)
Now, if companies want to do these kinds of different development activities, let us look at
how the business development gets done in these four categories of firms. Let us look at

single business companies. There are four ways in which the single business company can
work. It can expand markets for the new product variants because the business is being
expanded throughintroductionof newproducts.
And to be able to do that you need tohavestrongstrategic marketingcapabilities. Whenyou
talk about strategic marketing capabilities it is the ability tofocustheneeds of thecustomers
and thencreatea marketing communicationthatpositions theproductfor the future.
The other capability is to addnewproductswithin theexistingcurrent productfamily andfor
the current markets; that means that if you are having a passenger car witha 1000ccengine
you would add a passenger car with 1300 cc or 1500 cc or if you are having a scooter with
150 cc engine you would offer a product with 200 cc engine that is going to require strong
sales andmarketing capabilities.
However, if an internal combustionengine orientedcompany wants toaddanelectric vehicle
it will go into the first category where it is expanding markets for the new product variants
which means that you should be able to not only sell the automobile but you should also be
able to sell an electrified automobile whichhas therequirements ofeither batterychargingor
battery swapping and different kinds of customer behaviour in terms of the range and, you
know,energydensityandvarious otherparameters.
So, there is a difference here. You can expand the markets for the current product line again
as I said getting into other markets, exportmarkets andsoon.This requiresstrongmarketing
capabilities to be able to foresee the likelihood ofour sellingthose productsinthose markets
whose characteristicswedonot know.
Researching about them and understanding thefit between our companyand thosemarkets is
important. The fourth one, a simple one, is to improve market share for the current product
line in the current markets.I saidsimple one,butinactual practiceprobablyitis thetoughest
one. Because you have to have strong sales and sales promotional capabilities when all the
products are let us say commoditized and there is notmuch ofadifference between onetype
of water and another type of water, I mean drinking water bottles. How would you achieve
higher market share? You will achieve only when you have a strong sales and sales
promotional capability.

Sales promotion because you will incentivize the distributors andretailers tobeable tostock
your product and when somebody says that give me bottled water, he is motivated to offer
one for which intense sales promotion has been done. And therefore, the retailer benefits.
Thesearethefour ways bywhich asinglebusinesscompany operates toexpandits business.
And in this as you can see from the bottom to the top there is an increasing role of business
development. All of these four activities or four methodologies require multi-functional
supportfrom R&Dtoqualityandfrom financetostrategy for example.
(ReferSlide Time: 37:12)
Now, look at the way id which is a unique home batterproducingcompany evolved. It came
into the market in 2005 on avery innovativeplatform. You donothaveto makeidly batterat
home with all the trouble and mess. It will make the idly batter almost like a South Indian
requirement.
The company started with idlybatter inChennaiand Bangalore-met thetraditional tasteand
consistency requirements of a typical traditional home. Then it went into coverage of most
Indian metros and top tier-one cities with varied battery batter products in 2010. By 2015,it
started introducing more convenience food products such as paneer, parota and coffee
decoction. And in 2021 the company beganlooking atinternational marketswith presencein
certain citiesof USAand MiddleEast.

If you look at this company ID which has a kind of product cluster which falls in one
definition of meeting the kitchen needs of typical Indian, it has moved through the four
categorizations which I have discussed and described in the previous slide.So, from2005to
2010, and 2015 to 2021, the company has moved in terms of expanding its product line,
achieving higher market share in the same product line, extending the product to more
geographies, andaddingmore conveniencefood products.
And finally, getting into the international markets in a bold diversification albeit geographic
diversification. Thisishow thesinglebusiness companymoved.
(ReferSlide Time: 38:58)
Now, let us look at the diversifying business companies. Let us start with the bottom this
time. Diversifying business companies would improve the current product market depth and
breadth in every business, and to be able to do that they require strong sales and marketing
capabilities. They might try to create new product market niches which requires strong
strategic marketcapabilities.
They may spot emerging mega trends and prepare for product-market transformations that
requires strong business strategy and strategic marketing capabilities. And eventually they
may innovate to create new mega trends by themselves and create new businesses - for that
yourequire strongvisionarymissionaryand strategiccapabilities.

Again, you will see the increasing role of business development as a company moves from
the foundational stage to the superstructure and the apex stage. All the above again require
multi-functional support from R&D to quality and finance to strategy; there is no difference
between thefirstmethodologyandthe second methodology.
(ReferSlide Time: 39:59)
Let us look at an example here, we have Tata, Tata groupI mean. Inthe 1990sthefocuswas
only on operational excellence and product excellence. So that they will get the maximum
possible market share in Tata motors. Then in the 2000s they went into the globalization of
businesses - theygotinto beverages,steel, automobiles,hotels,etcetera. TheyacquiredTetley
brand for global beverages market, they acquired Corus and other operating facilities of
Corus.
So that they could be a globalized steel company and irrespective of Tata motors they
acquired the Marque Jaguar, Land Rover, JLR models and globalized their automotive
business. In 2010,thecompanystarted lookingat theproduct-marketdiversification, butwith
a focus on business consolidation. They understood that spreading too thin on too many
productgroups isnotlikely tobehelpful.
They wanted to operate in tenbusinessverticals andwithclearly definedstrategies, againwe
will cover this at a later stage in another lecture. In the 2020s, the mega trends are electric
vehicles, electric batteries, semiconductors, renewable power, hydrogen power. So, perhaps

these are being considered, and actually already implemented in certain cases to be able to
diversifythecompany even moreandinline withthe emergingmega trends.
(ReferSlide Time: 41:34)
Now, start-ups have a different way of looking at business development. In the initial phase
the business start-ups look at launching the product and testing the product and pilot
marketing and that requires strong technical selling skills. There are three proofs that are
required byastart-up.
One is the proof of concept thatthe conceptthat hasbeen thoughtabout willworkin practice
and thatwill happenwhenthe ideationandprototypestages aresuccessfulandthey aretested
and validated. The proof of product is to develop a minimum viable product actually run in
the field and then see whether it meets the requirements and once the minimum viable
product is done youdotheultimate desirableproductall ofthesearecovered verywell inmy
entrepreneurship course.
Anyway, that apart the simple concept here is that you needtoprove your concept,youneed
to prove your product and finally, you need to prove your business. You may have done
wonderful product development andthe productitselfhas come verynicely. But isthe market
ready to accept it or do you have the capability to convince the market that this is aproduct
that needsto betaken?

All of these things require strong technical skills with a facet of marketing weaved in. Then
you have the commercial launch and initial sale that requires strong sales and marketing
capabilities. And lateron, youneedto achievemarketbreadth anddepthwhich againrequires
stronger market salesand marketing capabilities.And finally,youneed tomanageyourself as
a well-oiled production machine like a mainstream company which requires you to focuson
sustainablecompetitiveadvantagefor the longterm.
That requires strategicbusiness andstrategicmarketing skills.What arethe strategicbusiness
skills that are required? Ability to create a large organization, ability to establish efficient
management processes, ability to have a value chain which is delivering to the customer,
ability to respond in terms of design, manufacturing and marketing requirements, and
everythingwhat avery well-established mainstreamcompany does.
And apart from that you need to have a business sense to understand where the market is
going and influence that market development. Again, increasing role of business
development in these four phasesaswith theothertwotypes ofcompanies. Thesecompanies
also require multi-functional support from R&D to quality and from finance to strategy for
example.
(ReferSlide Time: 44:17)
Let us look at anexample:anIIT Madras ResearchParkincubated smartwearables company
Conzumex that is the company. In 2018 it did the test marketing for its first product called
Muse smartwatch- it isa watchwithanalog looks, butwithdigitalcapabilities.

And the company marketed through Indigogo which is an technically innovative product
platform and it has used that to market its product to those people who areinterestedinsuch
technologically innovative products, but also use the proceeds to fund the working capital
cycle.
In 2019, it made its commercial launch undertook aggressive social media marketing and
relied on word of mouth. In 2020 it had shown volatility because of the pandemic, how to
manage the adverse circumstances that that arose out of pandemic and looked at both B2C
and B2B.
Not only that to enhance the market depth and breadth it introduced a new product called
Muse Cue which has the ability to measure our vital parameters that are necessary for
identifying the intensity of COVID andalso goasfaras differentiatingaCOVID coughfrom
anormal cough.
It also tied up with the hospitals and clinics to be able to forecast who would who wouldbe
treating intensive COVID therapy and also therefore,create appropriatepathways interms of
intermediate ICUrequirement.Thatis how theytry tomanagethe pandemicsituation.
And in 2020 we started viewing its operating system as the competitive advantage it looked
at unbundling of the OS and took the designand manufacturetothe nextlevel.So, astart-up
in the initial phase behaves interms ofstrategic marketing,strategic technologyandbusiness
developmentin thisfashion.

(ReferSlide Time: 46:17)
Now, let us look at the fourth category which is business development by start-ups in the
ramp up phase. Again, going from the foundation. Such companies improve the breadthand
depth of the niche they require strong technical selling skills; they create multiple product
marketnicheswhich require strongbusinessstrategy andstrategicmarketing skills.
They require the ability to achieve market breadth and depth not only sales, but strong sales
promotion capabilities and strategic marketing capabilities - become a pan-market
phenomenon with strong strategic business and strategic marketing skills. Companies which
we have evaluated evaluated these methodologies and have evolved into pan Indian
companies be it the Zomato, be it Nykaa, be it Paytm they have integrated all of these
capabilitiesto beable torampuptheiroperations.
Again, as the company moves through all these four phases increasing role of business
development comes into focus because they require more relationships, they require more
win-win arrangements and they require moresustainabilitycapabilities. And youcansee that
Zomato increased its hotel and restaurant network, it got into different kinds of structuring
arrangements; some of them worked, some of them did not work, and they had pushback as
well,theytry togetinto instantdelivery system.
Again, there was a pushback, but they kept on growing, they kept on addingnewer verticals
and startedshowing abusiness savvydiversification thattook thecompany ontothe ramp-up
phase ina veryaggressivemanner.

(ReferSlide Time: 48:06)
So, a start-up in the ramp-up phase another example is Swiggy, as I said. In 2016, reinforce
the digital appintegratedpaymentandordering ordertracking systems.In 2018expandedthe
offerings,enhancedtherestaurantrelationships, reinforcedelivery organization.
In 2020 rapid growth and penetration in food delivery aided strongly by COVID-19
pandemic. In 2022 operating in 500 plus Indian cities pan India not only traditional food
deliveryof thecompany,butpackagedelivery, instantgroceriesandso on.
(ReferSlide Time: 48:47)

So, when you look at this whole picture which I have presented to you in several cross
sections you will find that there are two drivers. One is the market and the second is the
people. And what does the market comprise of? It comprises the point ofsalewhere thesale
actually takes place,a retail strollwhichprovides aphysicalplatform or adigitalplatform for
thesaleto takeplacefor theproductsand servicestobelistedand displayed.
A retail mall which provides a further ecosystem for the retailertostay. And intoday’sterms
whole thing completely digitized and operating as a digital universe. And when you look at
the customer you look at an individual customer, you look at a customer group you look at
themarketsegment andyou lookatthe customer universe.
So, these are the four circles of people who are going toinfluence yourdemand pattern.The
matching of the markets and the people to what you require in terms of your strategic
marketing and in terms of your business development is the challenge and the opportunity
youhaveasthebusiness developmentleader ofthe company.
(ReferSlide Time: 50:04)
So, at this point of time let us recall again the sales, marketing and business development
functionalities and how business development is an integrative art and science of taking the
other adjuncts into its fold. Sales earns revenue for sales earns revenue for the company in
exchangefor productor servicefor the customer.

Marketing seeks customer clusters or the market segments who have homogeneity of needs
and finally, business development prospects and develops relationships with major customer
groups for current or future products. This is the three-circle business development
approaches whichI would comment.
(ReferSlide Time: 50:56)
In terms of actualization, there could be three approaches to business development. One
could be entirely product driven; one could be entirely customer driven and one could be
context driven. When we say entirely it does not mean that other functionalities of the
organization donotstep in,they dostepin.
But the one which moves the needle in the marketplace is either the productorthe customer
and in some cases the context. So, when adigitalwatch isintroduced andthat product fulfils
a novel need of the customers when it comes with appeal that is a product driven business
development.
When the customer has many choices as in the case of any automobile line and there is an
evaluation process by the customer you have to be really looking at the customer in great
depth to be able to fulfil his layered requirements and to understand how his mind works in
termsof purchasing,usingandoperating thecaror thetruck.
Then you have a context-driven approach to business development. It is going to involve a
dynamic product-market match;it requiresadaptivebusinessdevelopment. Consider yourself

that you are in the mutual fund industry - you are a business development guy, the mutual
fund industry is nothing but an investing platform that is made available for the investors
because theydonothavethetimeor theriskprofile todirectly dabble instocks.
So, you offer mutual fund as an integrated way to earn money through the investments of
people. There are three categories here. One the structure of a mutual fund which is open
ended, closed ended and interval funds. Then you have an investment objective growth,
dividend, balanced,hybrid, value, debt,multi cap. Thenyouhavethemesthat aretoomany to
be describedhere.
Then you have got otherswhicharevery special purposefundsand whichhavegot theirown
characteristics, some of them are passive funds, some of them are funds of funds some are
thematic funds and so on.These categorizationsunlikea productorservice donotstay fixed.
This categorizationkeeps evolving overtimeand dependinguponenvironmental changesand
the way the preference of consumers moves, the requirements of the company offering
mutualfunds alsochanges.
And the context is set by the environment - the global environment, the liquidity, the
government policies, the tax rates, the capital gains rates, the SEBI regulations and various
otherfactors.And therefore,youcannot say thatlike anautomobile, Iwill offera productand
that will remainforever- No.
It is a context driven dynamic product marketdevelopment ofthe businesshere,andit hasto
be very adaptive. So, there are three approaches to business development that a business
development person can look at. Generally product driven, generally customer driven or
generally contextdriven.

(ReferSlide Time: 54:02)
Let us also lookathow thebusiness developmentgradation occurswithreference tothe sales
and marketing. There are several types of patients requiring several types of therapies. For
example, you require cardiac therapy, pulmonary therapy, vascular therapy, gastro, diabetes
therapy,endocrinology,oncology for cancer,nephro etcetera,etcetera.
And these medicines are deployed or offered and administered in a whole sequence of
settings - youhavedoctor,youhave clinic,youhavehospital wherethis prescription couldbe
happening, and in some cases even the administration would be happening. And the
medicines thatarerequiredaresuppliedthrough aphysical pharmacyor anonline pharmacy.
But there could be segments which are not into this mainstream, there could be private
general practitioners, there could be private GPU organizations that is group purchase
organizations which have got significant purchasing power, there could be governments
which arewholesalepurchasesof medicines.
Now, sales and marketing typicallylooks atthe firstfivechannels. Businessdevelopment has
to look at the entities which are going to control a huge amount of purchasing activity.
Particularly, in the United States which is an evolved pharmaceutical market withbillionsof
dollars atstakegroup purchasingorganizationsandgovernments arevery strong andbusiness
developmenttypicallyfocuses onthis.

For every industrial product or for every product you will find that there are spaces where
sales and marketing works, and there arespaces wherebusiness developmentworks. Iwould
call this a marketing to business development gradation and I have takenthe pharmaceutical
example. Withthis wecometothe endof thislecture.
Thankyouvery muchfor your attention.We willmeetin thenext lecture.

