BusinessDevelopment FromStart to Scale
Prof.C BhaktavatsalaRao
Department ofManagement Studies
Indian Institute of Technology,Madras
Week-01
Business Fundamentals
Lecture- 04
Strategy Formulation
Hi friends, welcome to the NPTELcourse BusinessDevelopment fromStart toScale. Weare
in week 1, covering the topic of Business Fundamentals. It is actually the theme of the 5
lectures. In this lecture, the 4th in the series, we are covering the topic of Strategy
Formulation.
(ReferSlide Time: 00:28)
We have considered in earlier sessions that the strategy of a firm determines how business
development can take place. It also determines how different functions of a company canbe
aligned to deliver the results. Strategy formulation is a process that begins with setting the
vision for thecompany,developing thestrategy, andexecutingit asper atimeline.
The major building blocks of this process are presented below. Vision is nothing but
expressing where the company wouldneedto beandthe broaderpurposethe companyhas in
its growth journey. Vision itself is very broad. Visionneeds tobe supplementedwith mission

and goals. Goals will be most; more specific. Strategy is a set of plans or actions that tellus
where tocompete, howtocompete, whatresourcestodeploy, andhow toorganise.
Execution is another name for implementation. Execution includes setting the milestones,
developing the metrics, monitoring performance against milestones and metrics, and
providing feedback to the strategy planners and the chief executive officer. There are many
aspects of strategy formulation that are linked to the context of the firm’s business and also
theindustry.
The strategy for an automobile firm is differentfromthe strategyfor an oilandgas firm.It is
also different from a company which is indulging in fast moving consumer goods business.
So, thingsaredifferent depending uponthenatureof theindustry.Whilestrategy is holistic,it
also hasmanycomponents,divisional orfunctional, for example.
(ReferSlide Time: 02:13)
The nature of strategy varies, whether the strategy is oneof aconglomerateor ofacompany,
or of a constituent business. A conglomerate is a group of companies with a common
ownership structure. A company may have a single business or multiple businesses, so you
can look at a horizontal spread from the Apex conglomerate through the companies to the
businesses. In each company, there willbe acorporateplanor abusinessplan for aparticular
business coveringthevariousfunctional hierarchies.

And when these businesses are combined within a family of a company, it becomes the
corporate plan for thecompany, andthecorporateplans of thevariouscompanies becomethe
overall strategic plan for the conglomerate. Now, these lines are shownillustrative typically;
a conglomerate would be a group of several several companies could be 10,20, 30,depends
uponthenature of theconglomerate.
Similarly, a company could be a grouping of several businesses,not justtwobusinesses. The
complexity of strategy formulation is, therefore,evident,andthis is calledstrategy hierarchy.
But at the same time, there is also a horizontal spread of the strategy hierarchy as youmove
into a companysituationandalso into aconglomeratesituation.
(ReferSlide Time: 03:41)
There are three interconnected processes of planning, implementing, and control which are
conducted periodically as per the long-term planning mechanism that used to be there a few
decades ago. There would be planning, which comprises the corporateplanning, whichboils
down to the strategic business unit and further cascades down to business planning and
moves ontoproductplanning.
Product is the basic atom of developing the strategy. From a product which serves amarket,
you get into a business, and that business forms the strategic business unit, and then it leads
to the corporate plan. In terms of the implementing, you need to organise the company in
termsof thefactor resources, includingpeople,and beginimplementingit.

The controlling module looks at measuring the results, evaluating the results, and taking
corrective action. Usually, strategic planning is undertaken with a five-year horizon. In the
contemporary period of fast and dynamic changes in technology and market preferences,
evena three-yeartimeframeis considered appropriatefor strategicplanning.
Typically the first year of a strategic plan tends to be the annual budget. The annual budget
will be firm and fixed, and calendarized in terms of months for execution. However, the
strategic plan itself, over the three-year, five-year horizon, could undergo certain changes
based on environmental developments and also the varying internal strengths and
weaknesses.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Strategic Officer have the responsibility to
establish a fine balance between the focus of a reasonably fixed strategic plan and the
adaptiveness and flexibility of a plan which is dynamically responding to ongoing
developments; you cannot be too flexible, you cannot also be too rigid. This is the fine
balance thatisrequired.
(ReferSlide Time: 05:44)
There are many practices and outcomes of strategic management. In the theory of strategic
management, you would find several concepts, theories, frameworks, and models, and these
help the company to formulate strategy. It also helps the company to execute to achieve the
desired outcomes. Although this is not a course for strategic management, I will try to

provide you several nuggets of knowledge related to strategic management so that you can
look atthiswhole domain ofbusinessdevelopment inamoreholistic way.
Illustratively strategic management requires external analysis of the environment, internal
analysis of thefirm and itsecosystem, thestrategy formulationprocess itself, andthestrategy
execution paradigm. And to be able to do that, a company may look at expansion,
diversification, integration, and restructuring. Each of these activities will be required at
different partsof thelife ofthe company.
Expansion is indicated when thereisadequate marketdemand, andyoucould introducemore
products and capture more market share. The integration will be required when the cost
competitiveness of the product is desired, and there is sufficient demand to sell a
cost-competitive product.This integration couldbeforward integrationintothe channels,that
is, dealerships, customer connect, or it could be backward in terms of the supply of
components or vendormaterials.
When there isasaturation ofthe marketor whentherearebetteropportunities,there couldbe
diversification as a strategic plan component. When the going is tough, and you need to
reaching the enterprise, you need to undergo restructuring. These are the four ways in a
company’s thought process. This can be again achieved through four tools collaboration,
alliance, joint venture, merger and acquisition. In this course, I will comprehensively deal
with eachof thesethings in laterlectures.
The ultimate objective of the strategic management process is to provide four financial
parameters and market parameters. Market share, market capitalization, revenue, and profit
are the four markers viewed from a marketing as well as financial perspective to help the
company achieveits dominance.

(ReferSlide Time: 08:17)
The comprehensive strategyframeworkthat Ihave proposedhereisvery important for youto
visualize the whole process of strategicdevelopmentover along-term framework.It requires
environmental scanning, strategy formulation, strategy implementation, and evaluation and
control to be viewed as four distinct modules, but each interconnected with the other. The
starting part of a very comprehensive strategic framework is the environmental scanning
module.
In this, you require an analysis of the external environment, comprising nature, society,
economy, and industry. In the past strategic planning approaches, nature was never a factor,
but today even the ESG considerations, i.e., environmental, social, and governance
considerations, and also the need to protect the environment, nature, and society have
emerged as the most important drivers of external analysis, internally we must look at the
values,culture,structure, andresourcesof theorganization.
You cannot think of something which is grossly at variance with the internal system thatwe
have, we need to change the internal system from time to time, but there cannot be an
immediate gross deviation from whatever are available as internal strengths and internal
attributes. The strategy formulation process itself comprises four important components:
Vision and mission, including goals as we have discussed earlier; the objectives, that is, the
results that are expected; the strategies, that is the planning and plans to achievethe mission
and objectivesand thepolicieswhich aretheguidelines for makingthe strategies.

Once you have the strategy stitched up, you need to go into the strategy implementation
phase, which comprises programs and tactics, budgets, and procedures. The evaluation
control would take place through performance and results. Every module is required to
provide feedback and landing mechanisms and enable the company to take corrective or
remediation actionsasrequired.
(ReferSlide Time: 10:33)
Leaders tend to label strategies; they look at the strategy process as a labelled process
outcome paradigm. They look at this as a means to propel their firms toward the desired
results. Therefore, they see strategies as ones that transform their companies in terms of
certain key themes. Over a period of time, there have been three broad categories that have
been developed in terms of labelling strategies; one set is the competitive strategy set, cost
leadership,differentiationand nichepositioning.
These are the three generic competitive strategies that areavailable todevelop acompany on
its growth path. We also have corporate strategies that have been there even earlier to the
development of the competitive strategy theory. These are integration, diversification,
venturing, merger,acquisition,andglobalization.
There have also been functional strategies even prior to thecorporatestrategy regime, which
includedmarketshare building, product portfoliodevelopment, financialanalysis,operational
excellence, etc. Whichever way you view the strategy, its linkages with the external
environment andits appropriateness tothe internalcapabilities cannot beeasilydismissed.

Great leaders build internal capabilities that can proactively cope with environmental
dynamics. Similarly, great leaders also consider strategy as a wholesome practice that
comprises competitive strategies, corporate strategies, and functional strategies. All of these
togetherwill be avery virtuous methodof developingastrategy for acompany.
(ReferSlide Time: 12:23)
The business platform, as we may look at for every company, is a combination of vision,
mission and values, strategy, structure, and execution; this is what I have told in the earlier
sessions as well. But the time frame for thisvaries fromtimetotime,and valuesaretheones
which will provide a purposefor the company,whichwill guidethe formulationof thevision
and mission.
Strategy isaseries of approachesandstepswhich convertsthe visionand missionintoreality.
Here, I introduce the third element, which I have not covered earlier in such detail. The
structure, whether you call it organizational structure or resource structure, or people
structure, serves as the platform for the business and the related organization to execute this
strategy.
When you come through the organizational part of our course, wherein I will briefly touch
upon the organizational structure, you will see the linkagesof theorganization structurewith
the vision, mission, and strategy ofthe company,the natureofthe industryandalso the scope
for business developmentutilizingthe organization structure.

Execution is the process of undertaking through the structure of various acts and activities
that are required to convert the strategy into reality. One thing we need to remember vision
and mission stay for a long; they are not annual, iterative statements; they are broad enough
to help thecompanyguide itselfonits future journey.
They will get reviewed, reconfirmed from time to time, but not certainly annually. Great
values, on the other hand, stay on for perpetuity values are so fundamental to a company’s
goodbehaviour andgoodlivingthat thesearetobe chosenwith greatcare.Oncechosen, they
must beembeddedinto theDNAof thecompany.
In contrast to vision, mission, and values, strategy, structure, and execution constitutes the
core triad whichrequirescontiguous attentionbythe topleaders ofthe company,andstrategy
structure and execution can be altered from time to time within the overall framework of
vision missionand values.
(ReferSlide Time: 14:47)
Let us look at what vision and mission constitute in terms of the vision and mission
statements of leading global pharmaceutical companies. Most of the companies must be
known to you. Pfizer, we apply science and our global resourcestobring therapiestopeople
that extend and significantly improve their lives. This is a vision statement of the Pfizer
Corporation, whichisoneof thetop-ranking pharmaceuticalcompanies globally.

What do you see from this application of science? Utilization of global resources,
development of therapies, and extension and improvement of patient lives; these guidelines,
these purposes will remain for a long, longtimefor anypharmaceuticalcompany. Therefore,
this is the way a company defines and embeds its vision into the company. Merck, another
pharmaceutical company, says we aspire to be the premier research-intensive
biopharmaceutical companyinthe world.
Now, what is another pharmaceutical company says?Ourmission istodiscover newwaysto
improve and extend people’s lives. Our vision is to be a trusted leader in changing the
practice of medicine. Abbott is also a great pharmaceutical company. It says even more
simply, live your best life now and in the future. AstraZeneca talks about pushing the
boundariesof scienceto deliverlife-changing medicines.
GSK is another leader with a long heritage; we are a science-led global healthcare company
with a special purpose to help people do more, which means be more active, achieve more,
feel better, and live longer.BristolMyersSquibb, another Stalwartcompany it,says discover,
develop, anddeliverinnovative medicines thathelp patientsprevail over seriousdiseases.
Now, the way you define the disease over serious diseases which means that BMS will be
more inclined towards developing challenging therapies rather than small over-the-counter
medicines. So, this is animportant visionarystatementthat tellsthe company whereit should
focusits energieson.
Amgen, is a leading biotherapeutics company. Amgen strives to serve patients by
transforming the promise of science and biotechnology into therapies that have the powerto
restore health or save lives. In everything we do, we aim to fulfill our mission to serve
patients.Roche,again another leadingcompanyit, says doingnow whatpatientsneed next.
Allergan is a company it says, I will continue as an innovative technology-driven global
healthcare company, focused on pharmaceuticals in specialty markets that deliver value to
customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients’ lives. You can also see the
kind of differencesin how thevision statementsaredefinedbydifferent companies.Someare
very simple, as in thecaseof Abbott.Liveyour best lifenow andinthe future;some arevery
elaborate, as in the case of Allergan andAmgen,and inmost cases,vision statementstendto
be betweenthetwo.

(ReferSlide Time: 18:12)
How do you craft a mission statement? Once youhave thevision, youneed totransformthat
into a mission statement so that people can perceive that in a tangible fashion. A good
mission statement will have six major characteristics. One, it will be concise, it will have
limited goals, andthegoals willbe verymeaningful.
Second, it will have values and those values will be very clearly seen in the mission
statement. It also ensures that the company follows a policy of integrity in all its thoughts,
expressions, and deeds. It clearly defines the future and provides a timeline. A mission is
usually for the long term for 5 to 10 years, and it will be sustainable for an oil and gas
company; the mission could be to maximize the development of green energy so that the
green energy produced by the company is at least50percent ofthe totalenergy outputof the
company. It is a mission whereas, in terms of the vision, the vision could have been to
transform itself into a total clean energy company over a period of 10 years, 15 years like
that, so the vision is given a more concrete space, more concrete direction in terms of the
mission.
The mission will beinspiring topeople;itmotivates the peopleand createsownershipwhena
mission of electrification of the automobile lineup is given to the organization, and that
motivates the peoplebecausethey aregoingtohandle newtechnology, transformthe markets
change the customer mindsets, create a new infrastructure and also in the process become
morecompetitiverelativetothe othercompetitors.

And anotheraspect of themission isthat itwill serveas thebridgebetween thevision andthe
strategy. Straight away from the vision, it is challengingtotranslate intostrategy becausethe
vision is so broad in terms of its purpose, whereas if you have a mission which takes you
through the missionary steps, it will help in better guidancefor thestrategy. Businesshistory
hasmanyexamplesof leadershipmissions enablinggame-changingproductsandbusinesses.
(ReferSlide Time: 20:27)
I have given here an example of Hospira; it has avision withamission, ithas astrategy,and
it has structure and execution. I was part of the Hospira ecosystem between 2010 and 2015,
and I was the managing director of Hospira in India as well. The vision with the mission is
that we should keep our patients first, and we should do that withintensive caretherapiesso
that life-saving is made possible, and it has, therefore, become the world’s largest range of
sterile injectable products and medical devices that are an offer. In terms of strategy, it said
that we should drive growth and competitiveness with investments not only in the United
States, which is the parent country, but also in India for expansion, integration, and
diversification.
(Refer Time: 21:16) in order to do this, it has developed a structure, world-class
manufacturing, and R&D facilities in India, again supported by global R&D and
manufacturing facilities. In fact, it is a complementarity that has happened with network
collaboration and execute in an agile and nimble fashion along with cultural transformation.
This isthevision,mission,strategy, structure,execution,and growthframeworkfor Hospira.

(ReferSlide Time: 21:45)
But the strategy itself was panned out in terms of a set of programs. Usually, strategy is
implemented in a project or program mode; it is the synchronized culmination of these
projects and programs that helps the firm advance its growth path and also achieve
sustainablecompetitiveadvantage.
An example from Hospira’s India strategy in the period 2010 to 2015 is as below. It
comprises of 10 distinct programs. 1 acquire orchid sterile antibiotics injectables business,
both manufacturing and R&D. The idea was to start off in India with a readymade high
quality (Refer Time: 22:27) day compliant R&D and manufacturing base and also an
injectables drug pipeline.
Once the acquisition is done, you must double the acquired antibiotics manufacturing R&D
capacity because, as a company, Hospira had a global footprint and had better resources to
produce more and also market more. The 3rd program was to establish a biologics R&D
facility because the future is bio-stabilized. The 4th program was to establish a medical
device R&D facility because the company is committed to total healthcare not onlyin terms
of medicines butalso intermsof devicecare.
The 5th established non-antibiotic sterile injectables facility because some of the
non-antibiotic sterile injectables, be it vitamins or be it antibiotics, are all important for a
patient’s comprehensive health care. Then you needed to backward integrate to achieve
greater competitiveness. Therefore, acquire the antibiotics API business, sterile and

non-sterile manufacturing, and R&D. The 7th item was to establish global centres of
excellencein medicalaffairsandregulatoryaffairs.
The 8th item was to conduct product and technology transfers to Indian sites, and the 9th
project was to rationalize global development andmanufacturing footprint.And 10get intoa
space which is very vital for terminal stage developments of life, which is commitment,
which is the enhancement of the commitment to oncology joint ventures that develop
anti-oncology medicines.
This India strategy which comprised of the overall strategic direction of being in the
life-saving business for patients and having a mission of transforming the overall
competitiveness with a strong India presence resulted in enhanced capacity, lower cost, and
increasedglobal businessfor Hospira.
(ReferSlide Time: 24:29)
There will always be structural barriers to the implementation of the strategy. Now, these
structural barrierswill be therewhenotherfirms raisethe structuralbarriers; likewise,you,as
the company forming the strategy, have to raise structural barriers so that others cannot
simply copy your strategies you should raise structural barriers, which avoid forays by
competition or negatethemandfor that, youneed clearstrategies andexecution.
I have given you five examples here of companies which have created such structural
barriers. Ashok Leyland, the leading truck and bus manufacturer, has created structural

barriers by developing, manufacturing, and marketing for decades difficult to replicate
products. Maruti Suzuki has createda structuralbarrierbyowningand dominatinghigh-class
channel access right from the time it introduced its state-of-the-art products in the Indian
automobileproduct.
Samsung created a structural barrier by building brand equity. Apple has created astructural
barrier by ensuring purchase stickiness, i.e., theecosystem developedbyApplewasfound so
engrossing and so endearing for theAppleusers thatthey remainwith Apple,andthe general
saying is that if you are an Apple customer, you would not try out anything else and for
Kalyani leading manufacturer of forgings the structural barrier was in terms of scale and
scope economics.
The core was creating the difficult-to-manufacture cracks shafts for big internal combustion
engines, and from there, increased scaleandscope wasaimedat. Googlecreatespatentestate
proactively. Tata Motors judiciously integrate diversify; itis theonlyautomobile company in
India which covers everything from the smallest passenger car to the biggest truck and bus.
Hyundai ensurespreferred supplieraccess.
Nissan, which has teamed up with Reno co-own and co-share facilities and for DuPont to
maintain hard-to-imitate EHS and ESG policies. Now, these structural barriers are based on
certain core competency which is owned further. But it does not mean that the company
wouldnot haveothercapabilities.
In fact, each of these ten factors would be present in some measure or the other with the
various manufacturers that are listed here. But they have used one of these things to be a
rather insurmountable channel access orproductcapability structuralbarrier, as inthecaseof
MarutiSuzuki andAshokLeyland, thatothers findit difficult toovercome thosebarriers.
Raising the structuralbarriers,includingthe entryandmobilitybarriers, isthe mostdefensive
play for a firm; evenasyou pursueanaggressivestrategy ofbusinessdevelopment, youneed
to have defensive structural barriers so that the business can be constructed and managed
fruitfully and seamlesslyinthe future.

(ReferSlide Time: 27:48)
Business is all about delivering results. Leaders of corporations achieveresults bydeploying
products, services, facilities, people, and capital for the marketplace. The purposeistoserve
people, businesses, markets, and theecosystem. Peoplearethe consumers, andpeople arethe
employees are at the core of any particular corporatesetup, andthenyouhave thebusinesses
which deal with the markets and serve the markets, and we have the entire ecosystem ofthe
company.
Now, we have this ecosystem comprising facilities and vendors, products and services,
capital resources, and human resources; every company will have this. However, strategic
leadership is the art of creating a very special alchemy, a very distinct process alchemy that
makes the ideas spring up in a very unique manner, get strategized in a veryunique manner,
and also get executed in a very unique manner. And that strategic alchemy is something
which isgoingto differentiate yourcompany fromothercompanies.
You need to understand strategy in all its depth in all its breadth to be able to develop this
strategic alchemy; as you proceed, it is not just a set of plants that need to be written down
and circulated to departments is much more than itis creatinga DNAofstrategic alchemyin
thecompany.

(ReferSlide Time: 29:15)
But wealsomust remember thatwhatever structuralchangesyoudo,whateverstrategic shifts
you undertake, the core purpose of a business does not change, as we are aware that
industries, businesses, and companies have been changing over the last few decades but if
you really look at closely the core value or the core purpose of each business that is the
customer centricity does not change andthegreaterthe customer centricityofyour company,
theeasier wouldbethetransitioninthe transformationjourney.
Let us look at digital personalization in banking. When youlookatdigitizationhappening in
banking, you may think that, oh my god, banking is going to be completely different in the
future; there may not be so many branches,there maynotbe peopleexchangingchequesand
receiving cash all those kinds of thoughts may come, but the corepurposewhichis financial
empowerment of individuals is not going to change. In fact, it is going to be made much
betterwith thedigitalpersonalizationthat is happeningin banking.
Let uslook attheautonomous connectedautomobiles. Atonelevel,weunderstand thatthis is
going to completely transform theautomobile industry;the structureof vendors,thestructure
of products, the manufacturing processes, and the overall designs aregoingto becompletely
different in the future, but does the basic purpose the basic customer centricity change? No.
Mobility as a service continues to be the main purposeofthe automobileindustry,whetherit
is powered by clean energy engines or in any other manner by any other way, including
autonomy.

Let us look at pharmaceuticals. We have chemical molecules that have ruledthe rulessofar,
and today 50 percent of the molecules which are used as medicines or biologicalmolecules,
and in the future, it could be 75 percent biological molecules. Other methods of
pharmaceutical development, suchas regenerativemedicine andcustomized medicine,areall
coming through, but what is the core purpose? What is thecoreconnectwiththe customers?
Healthcare is the patient’s right; every individual who has come into this worldhas theright
to have ahealthylife, and thepharmaceuticalindustry’s main purposeremainsthe same.
For renewable energy, concern for theplanet,this isthe customer-centric themeandpurpose;
for farm modernization, aligning formproductivity andfarmersecurity;and for omnichannel
marketing, better customerservice. So, youlookatthe industrialtransformationsnot interms
of the nuts and bolts of the transformationorin termsof theclicksand sitesofthe industryit
has to be viewed in terms of the basic customer connectivity that remains as it was, but and
gets enhanced in terms of the smoothness, cleanliness, and prosperity of the process that is
taking place.
So, leaders should not look at industry restructuring only in terms of structural and strategic
factors instead, they should appreciate each and every change to see how the customer
interests can be better served. A leader’s primary engagement should be with the customer,
not with just the technologies of changing the industry structure or changing the products.
Ways of serving couldbemany, butwaste arenottheprimary purpose.In normallife,wesay
that destinationisnot important,the journey isimportant.
But in this case, we say that the destination which is serving the customer is the most
important; we may take different journeys, and we may take different ways to serve the
customer. The customer is the primary purpose,somethingwhich MahatmaGandhisaid long
long ago. The locus must change from firm customer interface to product customer
experience,and thisisthecorepurposethat must drivestrategyformulation incompanies.

(ReferSlide Time: 33:29)
Let us take one example of how an organization gets redesigned. I take the example of
electric vehicles; there are 6 principles of organizational redesign. They are very easy to
implement and very effective in terms of organization transformation, but these need to be
planned and executed methodically as per the construct below. There are 6 steps, as I said.
The first step is to review the external and internal ecosystems and review roles and
performance.
Second identify new growth drivers at three levels, departmental, new hires, and reskilling.
Determine currentstate andfuture state,prioritizedtransformation. Determinenewleadership
requirements and onboard new leaders. Create organization transformation; create ateamfor
that maketheCHROor the ChiefHumanResourceOfficer the executor.Rolloutthe pilotsin
theidentifiedareas,and extendorganization-wide afterfeedback.
Now, to be able to do that, you need partners; the partners are internal and external
stakeholders, i.e., the ecosystem residents and the external input givers, the organization
consultants, the search agencies, and the board of directors. These are the partners in the
organizational redesign journey. A leader and his managers or her managers may be able to
undertakeall of theorganization’s redesignactivitiesbythemselves.
However, it will make sense to seek external adviceincertain areasbecausetechnologies are
changing, customer preferences are changing you require anindependent third-partyviewon
the latest trends and the futuristic trends. So, that any entry into a new domain is seamless

and also very effective. Now, let us roll out theelectricvehicle exampleinterms ofthesesix
steps.
(ReferSlide Time: 35:27)
The first step is the review ofinternal andexternal ecosystems.Theredesigned principlesfor
mono-product companies are simpler compared to others. However, the roles, processes,
people, and performance management system need to be reviewed every few years. Now,
how do you do that? You develop the manufacturing and ecosystem-related paradigm over
several years.
Before it gets ossified, you need toreviewthat;youshouldidentify thechange triggersat the
product component and vendor level. Identify also the external change triggers, customers,
dealers, regulatory and usage terms. Review the demand and marketing system, review the
talent ecosystemin theindustry, andfinally,identify thepeople skills.
In the context of the sugar industry, the external inputs that have come in terms of ethanol
blending it hasbeenagreat inputhow the sugarindustryrestructuresitself andalso servesthe
oil industry and, therefore, the automobile and transportation sectors. The government has
mandated that there should be a blending of 20percentof ethanolby2023ithas accelerated
its mission by a few years, and that has radically changed the way sugar by-products that
molasses areused.

Similarly, there is a mandate that there should be a blending of 5 percent of biodiesel in
diesel. We consume several million tons of petrol and diesel withhugeimportation cost, and
that importation cost isballooninginthe contextofrupeedepreciation, butthis governmental
input in terms of themandate orguidance,whateveryoumay callisnudging theindustriesto
take fundamental transformations in how they conduct their manufacturing processes and
develop their products and by-products and that leads to the creation of new facilities,
reviewing of thetalentecosystem,identifying newpeople skillsandvarious otherparameters.
So, the study of internal and external ecosystems is very important to ensure that there isan
industrial transformation in the appropriate time and it also helps you identify the gaps and
take stepstoredesigntheorganization structureandredefinethe rolesingoodtime.
(ReferSlide Time: 37:52)
The second is to identify new growth drivers, alright. You want to go to electric vehicle
manufacturing. But what are the new departments that you require? You had an engine
developmentdepartmentearlier inyour R&D.You maynotrequire it tothat extent.However,
you require abatterydevelopmentdepartment,anda thermalmanagement systemdepartment
idea.
You had redesigners in terms of the overall industrial design of the passenger car, buttoday,
you have batteries put underneath on to the chassis, and both the front bonnet and the dicky
are available for loading of goods. Now, whether you would like to load the goods or
reconfiguretheentirecarto beamorecompact vehicle.

These are all the challenges you have; therefore, you require newdepartmentsandexpanded
departments. So, in respect of electric vehicle development, it is not that ice engine vehicles
will disappear overnight; they would continue for a long time, maybe another 10 years, 20
years, andalso improvementof thevehicles ontheroad.
Therefore, you require along with the established skills though they are calibrateddown ina
phased manner, you require new R&D skills, hybrid and electric development units, vendor
development for new electric and electronic components, technology sourcing, vendor
investment, testing, and homologation etcetera. Similarly, you require new ecosystem
coordinators.
The ecosystem, as defined earlier, will get supplemented with charging stations, battery
swapping, arrangements, government incentives, vehicle financing, dealer development, etc.
So, as a result, you get a new hybrid organization which is capable of managing the
established ice engine-based vehicle lineup. But also introduce and eventually take over the
ice engine-basedvehicleover aperiodof 10to15years.
So, there will be three types of gaps that are identified in this process need for entirely new
departments; batteries would not have been a departmental concern at all. Now, a news
department or sub-department has to becreated for the developmentof batteriesandalso the,
thermal managementsystemsandthe motors,etc.
You also require a new department for developing connected vehicles or autonomous
vehicles. Secondly, you need to develop new skills in the people who are already in the
company because you cannot (Refer Time: 40:52) the existing organization, and the talent
will not beavailable of the newskillstothe extentyourequire.
Therefore, you need to skill the existing people. The third is the need for reskilling the
existing employees. So, you have skilling the departments with the new capabilities and
reskilling the existing employees with training, coaching, and development, and identifying
of newdepartments thatneedtobe ininstituted allthe threehave tohappentogether.

(ReferSlide Time: 40:53)
Step 3 is to establish the current state of the company and the future state. And defining the
future state is extremely important to ensure thatthe keyin-houseand externalcompetencies
are shaped up in the way that will support the future state and that is the redefinition of the
organization. So, in terms of R&D from the current state of ICengineand transmission,you
goto electricpowerpackand transmissiontechnology.
Procurement from routine mechanical and electrical items you go into new electrical and
electronics items. Vendor development, which is a normal process ofprocurement willmove
into a new vendor development and qualification process almost on a green field basis. You
need to have technology sourcing moved away from part of regular R&D to a new
technologyscanningand sourcing department.
On road, the operation will be handled by regular street mechanics, service centres, and
various other network opportunities that the companies have built up over the years in the
current state. However, in the future state, you need to have new departments for battery
charging and swapping and also remotely managing the connected vehicles in case of any
anomaly.
Start-up development was required only minimally, even over the last few years in the
conventional automobile industry, but in the future state, you require certainly a new
department for evaluating the EV start-ups that are sprouting up and that are showing
promise. In terms of testing, all the certification and homologation requirements in the

current state are standardized, and it is repetitive, but when it go comes to the future state,
you need to have new certifications for electric vehicles and components. By not having
those certifications, we have also seen that the evolution of the future state will have a
setback, beit in termsof rangeproblems orin termsof thequalityproblems or,unfortunately,
in terms of fires which engulf electric vehicles. Therefore, you need to have all of these
things happeningwith aneye onthefuture state.
It is a virtual reinvention of the entire component and vehicle infrastructure asfaras electric
vehicles are concerned. These gaps can, of course, be bridged in the usual course, but
transformations of this nature suddenly require total reinvention that is why youshould look
atstep 3ingreat detail.
(ReferSlide Time: 43:26)
Step 4 is to create a new leadership nucleus. An organization under transformation to new
technologies as well as new business models will require anewplaceof newleadersor even
transformed leaders who can guide and execute the redesign and transformation process
because leaders are the ones who are going to set the vision, define the mission and tell the
organization howto moveforward.
So, you have the Apex leader. Under the apex leaderwill haveCXOs,there willbea current
R&D head, but he would have team leads who are newly skilled and reskilledofthe current
capabilities. Second, there will be a new development head for electric vehicles who will

have new departments. The current operations head will be reskilled to handle the electric
vehiclesaswellastheestablished vehiclessimultaneously.
There would be a newEV operations headwill beresponsiblefor end-to-end developmentof
new technology components, operationalizing them, and putting them into the marketplace.
So, that will be the new thing. So, upskilling,newskilling, wholenewdepartments,andnew
leaders wouldbetheentiregamut ofcreating the newleadershipnucleus.
So, we have to strengthen the organization substantially through the above construct, and
also, at times, you may have to take selective one-time consultancy support. So, thatthere is
lessof fixedcost andmore ofsustainablecost asyoutry todoan industrytransformation.
(ReferSlide Time: 45:07)
Step 5 when you look at an organization transformation it has to be companywide, but the
tone at the top is very important; the top leadership needs to set the guidance, but also see
how the guidance is actually getting executed in practice. So, we need an organization
transformation teamwhich willhave threelayers.
The top layer is the governance team comprising the CEO and the CXOs; the middle layer
will be thetransformation team,thatis theteamfull of newskillsandthe abilitytoupskillthe
existing organization, the CXOs, and the CHRO and the third the operating team for the
execution team which will comprise the Chief Human Resource Officer and various
departmentalheads.

When they put their heads together in these three layers, they will be able to provide the
required support to the transformation task, serve as sponsors to the transformation andthey
themselves will take accountability and ensure accountability. This is the way in which
organizationscantransform whenamagnitude ofthe electrificationscale isenvisaged.
(ReferSlide Time: 46:16)
Step 6 is the pilot rollout and organization expansion. Each business transformation will
require a distinctiveorganizationalexecution tosuit thepriorities. Therearesome advantages
of a nationwideexecutionor pan-productexecution, butapilot rolloutcould bevery practical
in terms of optimizing cost andcoursecorrecting.
So, phase1in theelectrificationendeavorcould befirst hybrid andelectricR&D followedby
battery vendor development in parallel or sequential and then technology sourcing. Phase 2
could be start-up evaluation and investment, full-scale vendor development, testing, and
homologation. GeneralMotors hasbeen inelectricvehicle developmentfor several years,but
it has been evaluating start-ups to understandwhetherdecarbonization couldbea technology
that could be integrated; after 3-4 years of evaluation, it has taken a new start-up under its
belt for decarbonising. Therefore, in phase two, you start degrading new technologies from
the external ecosystem; you also undertake full-scale vendor development, testing, and
homologation.
In phase 3, you look at the ecosystem dealer development pilot and full-scale organization
rollout. So, acquiring new core competencies, developing new components and electric

vehicles, rolling out of the pilots to demonstrate thenewrange,andfinally, standardizingthe
commercial new electric vehicle range is a sequence that needs to be followed, and some of
them obviously,will overlapinto thepreviousstages aswell asinto thefuture stages.
This execution plan, Phase 1, Phase 2, and Phase 3, which will focus on core technologies,
core components, and new waysofdevelopment andmanufacture, willbethe right answerto
rapidand successfulelectrificationof theautomobile industry.
(ReferSlide Time: 48:12)
Tobe ableto dothat,yourequire leaders whocan make history.Sony’sfounder, AkioMorita,
wanted everyone to have access to “personal portable sound,” so his company created the
Walkman and portable CD play decades ago. Fred Smithwanted todeliver mailanywherein
the United States before 10.30 AM the next day, so he created FedEx. Steve Jobs’ mission
and itsimprint onApple neednointroduction.
Strategic management in overall and strategic marketing, in particular, get significant
inspirational guidance from a well-crafted mission and leadership that supports thismission.
Leaders have been instrumental, pivotal, and highly valued in transforming their companies
from what they have been to what nobody imagined them to be; that is why missions are
important, and for missions to make history, you need visionary leaders who can make
missionsthat canbefuture history.

(ReferSlide Time: 49:18)
In this, we need to have marketing support or a business development setup; there are some
co-marketing processes that help. So, from this supply of the strategic marketing process,
which is aligned to thecorporate strategyand businessdevelopmentprocesses,youalso have
to be very focused on the market, and you have to sense the market; it is simply notenough
for a company to saythat Iwill gointoat quicklydevelopment youhaveto sensethemarket,
what is the nature if people are charging their vehicles in the homes inside the rooms? How
do I ensure that these are error-proof? How are these going to befire-proof?And whatother
kindsof chargingtechnologycan offer?
People should not, you know, repeat the same kind of mistake which Tata Nano did; it
developed a beautiful product but did not understand how it could be parked by the people
who are, in the past, owners of motorcycles with minimal parking space. Therefore,parking
space alone, in my opinion, derails the Tata Nano strategy. Similarly, if the electric vehicle
manufacturers have no understanding of how vehicles are going to be charged at home or
elsewhere, theelectricvehicle endeavorcould fail.
Therefore, sensing of the market, gathering and acting upon information about the marketis
extremely important. We also need tohavea realizationabout thenewoffering. So, youhave
to research, develop andlaunchnewhigh-quality offeringsquickly andwithin budget.It took
8or 4years tolaunch thenext generation ofelectricvehicles. Is thatacceptableis ithelpful?

The third one is customer acquisition. The core customers for any new vehicle development
or any new industrial product, or consumed product development are extremely important.
They provide word of mouth based on the performance of the product and theexperienceof
the users. Therefore, we need to define the target markets and prospects for the new
customersin avery targeted manner.
Then customer relationship management also becomes very important. We have to build a
deeper understanding relationships and offerings to individual customers because you got to
go the extra mile to make sure that they offer atotallynewproduct;receiving andapproving
orders,shipping goodson time,andcollecting paymentispartof thefulfil manage;fulfilment
management whichneeds tobedone evenmorerigorously.
In any industrial transformation, marketing processes which are focused on products and
customershaveto betransformed intofully end-to-end connectedas depictedabove.
(ReferSlide Time: 52:06)
We also have as part of strategy, as part of business development, organization structures,
playing very useful and very important role international organization structure is one such
primary. For example, typically in any development of industry there will be 5 stages. In
stage 1, the industry would comprise domestic companies. Stage 2domestic companieswith
exportdivisions. Stage3primarilydomestic companieswithinternational divisions.

Stage 4, multinational corporations with multi-domestic emphasis and in stage 5,
multinational corporations with a global emphasis on networking. Most developed countries
and the leading companies of the world are in stage 5. Be it the Unilever, be it the General
Electric, beit theApple or anyothersuch companies.
In India, companies have started from stage 1 post-independence, they moved on to stage 2
very quickly, they got stuck in stage 3 for quite some time, and now they are looking at
globalizing themselves. Look at the example of Tata Motors, Tata Steel and various other
companies.
Companies are also becoming global by inviting multinational companies to take stakes in
their corporations and, in this process, becoming more global. Theexampleof ancientpaints
between 1945 and 2020 is a classic example of how an India-based operation has become a
globalized operation through the acquisition of multiple manufacturing facilities and some
R&D facilities in various regionsof theworld, includingtheMiddleEast, Africa,Europe and
several other geographies which the company has not thought about when it started its
journey1945.
So, the development of organization structures which we will consider in greater detail later
is an important aspect of business developmentandglobal strategization.Withthis, wecome
to the endof this lecture.
Thankyoufor your kind attention.We willmeetagain inthe nextlecture.

