BusinessDevelopment FromStart to Scale
Prof.C BhaktavatsalaRao
Department ofManagement Studies
Indian Institute of Technology,Madras
Week-01
Business Fundamentals
Lecture- 05
Business DevelopmentCases
Hi friends, welcome to the NPTELcourse BusinessDevelopment fromStart toScale. Weare
in week 1, considering the theme of business fundamentals. In this lecture, the 5th in the
series, wewill considerseveral BusinessDevelopment Cases.
(ReferSlide Time: 00:26)
I have developed a template which probably could serve as a standardized construct for
understanding how companies conduct their business development over the years. There are
six fundamental factors that drive business development; the product or the service that a
company offers.
The customers it caters to the pricing in terms of its affordability or premiumisation nature,
the means of promotion and the extent of promotion that is adopted, the nature of the
ownership of the organization, and the marketplace in which it wants to compete. However,
these six factors by themselves are not enough. These have to be supported by certain core
strategies of the company, such as the business strategy, the marketing strategy,the financial

strategy, and the operation strategy. When all these six factors are deployed in an optimum
balance, a company would be able to develop its business successfully. Each of the
components will, of course, vary depending upon the natureofthe industryandthe natureof
thecompany.
(ReferSlide Time: 01:35)
Let us first consider Nirma. The 1970s were truly the year of Nirma.It wasfounded in1969
by Karsanbhai Patel. Nirma represents the story of an indigenous product that succeeded
against the product of an established MNC and has been made possible through a mix of
entrepreneurialpassionand astutebusinessstrategy deployed bythefounder.
The product was an indigenous detergent powder. The customers basically included the
bottom of the pyramid customers at the start, butsoonextendedtothe middleofthe pyramid
and top of the pyramid customers as well because the nature of the detergent powder was
something which appealed to the housemates who were the persons who were actually
cleaning thedishesintheIndian householdsofthat time.
Pricing was highly affordable; promotion was very focused and very aggressive, and it was
also evocative in an emotional sense. The girl child was the anchor andthe iconfor Nirma’s
advertisement campaign. The organization was in terms of an Indian startup with all the
entrepreneurial passion. The marketplace was the retail stores established all through the
India by the informal sector. Nirma captured the mind share of the customers through its
affordable product andstrong promotion.

(ReferSlide Time: 03:05)
Next, we have Reliance Jio in a completely different space. When reliance industriesset out
on its Jio telecom mission in 2007, it moved into the market with a completely integrated
strategy. The strategy had many facets, but product, technology, infrastructure, people,
service, and marketing were the significant drivers. Jio’s marketing was strategic because it
aimedatfulfilling thevisionof dominatingtheIndiantelecom space.
It was a service company and continues to be a service company; its main services are 4G
technology data and world fibre to-home service, offering home broadband, television, and
telephone services. It is set out to be a pan-India telecommunication company. The pricing
was very strategic to capture the market share from 0 to 33 percent. The market share grew
for relianceJiobecause ofthe strategicdata plans thatthe company offered.
The promotion was equally intense, and in omnichannel formats, the organization was
young, vibrant, aggressive, and energetic. The Jio stores offered a place where customers
could interact with the company. Again, duly supported by a strong business strategy, very
aggressive marketing strategy, almost limitless financial strategy, and capital investment
strategy andoperations that focusonthefastestpossibledelivery ofservicesacross India.
Reliance Jio illustrates that business development is driven by business strategy,whichis, in
turn, driven by thevisionandmission ofthe company.Thevariouselements of Jiomarketing
make for acompletestrategic plan.

(ReferSlide Time: 04:54)
Zydus Wellness was established in 1974 by Cadila Healthcare Group. It operated in the
nutritional products field. The business was built by thesugarsubstitutesmarketed under the
Sugar-FreeGoldand Natura brands.
The customers were initially diabeticpatients andthemiddleof thepyramid patientswho are
looking at calorie reduction over the period of its existence and evolution. The customers
moved up as well as down. Pricing was imported competitive; promotion was essentially
through advertising with celebrity chefs leading the advertisements in several cases. The
package itself served as an effective advertisement because it also provided recipes and
attractiveproductliterature.
Public Limited Zydus promoted company ithaddeep pocketstogothrough theinitial startup
phase. The products were offered inpharmaceuticalchemistshops aswell asin generalretail
stores. Over the years, Zydus Wellness strategically positioned itself as a wellness FMCG
company witha stronginitial focusondiabetics andcalorie-consciouspeople.

(ReferSlide Time: 06:08)
Vini Cosmetics, established in2010,is adeodorantcompany that achievedmarketdominance
through multiple initiatives. Today it commands three times the market sharethat the closest
MNCrival onceamarketleader currentlyhas.It offers theFogg brand ofdeodorants.
The customer base is spread all across the Indian demographics. Pricing is market
competitive. Promotion is at times over the top through visual media and is reputed to be
three times over rivals. It is an Indian startup which covered the entire nation. It hadits own
sharp business strategy and more tactical marketing plans. It had the requisite finance and
operationalstrengthto carryout itsrollout plan.
When the flagship product range becomes the most dominant revenue earner for the
company, in thiscase,asmuch as75percent, itnotonly representsadominantstatus butalso
makes it vulnerable to competition; that is how we see other deodorants coming up with
similarapproaches.

(ReferSlide Time: 07:19)
How does the company market itself, particularly when the projects are related to big
infrastructure projects funded by governments and large public and private sector
corporations, includingglobalfunding agencies?
L&T Construction represents the success of a company in this domain. It is a service
company offering construction services. The customers are governments public sector, and
theprivatesector.L&TConstructionis reputedtobe avery high-qualityconstructionagency;
however, it wins its standards because of its competitive price. Promotion is essentially
through its iconic projects division of Indian public limited conglomerate L&T; L&T
constructionhasalways had thedeep pocketstoestablish infrastructure.
L&T’s rapid growth and leading position sinceits establishmentin 1946isareflection ofthe
organization. It deployed technologyand executionfor businessdevelopment throughproject
delivery. Any civil engineering project is people driven,andthepeople intensity andtheskill
requirement have been managed exceptionally well by L&T over these last several decades
of its operation.

(ReferSlide Time: 08:39)
The Happiest Minds was established in 2011 by serial entrepreneur Ashok Soota. This
happened after L&T acquired his company and passion called MindTree. Although the
happiest minds is in the same category or a similar category as MindTree,thecompany won
clients and grew rapidly. Big US technology companies came to the support of the happiest
minds companyasit set out onitsslow journey.
Pricing was similar to other mid-tier companies, but better delivery offered by the company
provided a competitive advantage. The promotion was essentially in terms of cross-selling
and upselling products and services.Theorganization started asanIndianIT startupbutsoon
cameinto public limited status.
North America was thefocusedmarketplace. Thehappiestminds isaninteresting exampleof
core relationships sustaining across time and corporate formats, and the network of Ashok
Soota hasbeenbehindthesuccess ofthe happiestminds.

(ReferSlide Time: 09:48)
Paytm has been a pioneer for a little over a decade, from 2010, in the field of digital
payments in India. Notwithstanding thegreat push,Paytmhas beena successstoryinits own
right of a dedicated business development strategy. It was acompany whichwasahead ofits
timeasfar astheIndianFintech marketis concerned.
Its products included valid payments and a digital financial marketplace; customers were all
across the Indian demographic pyramid, rising expected to be lower thanthe fully accounted
cost because the company continues to make significant losses even afterseveral yearsof its
operation.
The promotion has been intense and through several channels. ThePaytmboard, whichis so
popular across the retail network itself, served as the advertisement; it is an Indian unicorn
having started up as a small entrepreneurial firm. It is now also alisted company.Paytm isa
leading case in India’s Fintech startup story and has several interesting verticals; not all
verticals havesucceededin thesamemanneras thecoreverticalof financialbreaching.

(ReferSlide Time: 11:08)
Adani Green has been an early mover in the renewable energy industry in India. It was
established in 2015, and it is the largest producer of green energy in India. The going is
challenging given the bargaining strength and financial weaknessofDiscoms,it isof course,
instructive to note that although Adani Green got listed in 2015, Adani Green has been
incubated by the parent company Adani Enterprises for several years earlier; that is, how it
hasbeenan earlymoverin therenewable energy industry.
The customers included the Discoms and government agencies across the nation. Pricing
generally is set by the governments and tenders, although contractual relationships require
that thereshouldbe appropriatediligence onthecost andpricinglevels ofanypower utility.
It is partof theAdaniconglomerate, therefore,has deeppocketsto operateinthis challenging
field. It is also a listed company. India is the total marketplace for Adani Green, with the
government of India going the whole hog to promote renewables and Reliance Industries
decidingto moveaggressivelyinto greenenergy.
Adani will have both tailwinds and headwinds asits pushfor industry leadershipaccelerates.
Again, this is an operation which requires a strong business strategy, a robust marketing
strategy,a deep-pocketfinancial strategy,andan execution-orientedoperationstrategy.

(ReferSlide Time: 12:43)
SBI Yono was established in2017.It wasestablishedbytheState Bank ofIndia,which isthe
leading public-sector bank in India. It has become a great value creator for the company.
Although a division of SBI, it could providesignificantvaluationif at allthe bankdecidesto
spin it off at some stage in the future. It is a super app for banking investments and
e-commerce.
The entire SBI’s vast customer base is offered for Yono. In addition, Yono is flexible to
accept customers from other banks. Pricing is opaque because it is still run as a division of
SBI. SBI strongly co-promotes Yono in its channels as well as in its retail branches. As a
division of SBI, it has the strengthto attemptsomethingbigger as theyears goby.Theplace,
of course, istheuniversal Indianmarketplacefor financialrequirements.
Despite the image of a sober public enterprise, SBI has been very innovative and
entrepreneurialin conceptualizingandlaunchingYono. It haspositionedYono differentlyand
also differentially. A digitally skilled youthful organization and an equally youthful
communicationand brandinghave positionedYono inthemillennials minds.

(ReferSlide Time: 14:10)
Hyundai has been the only foreign car manufacturer apart from Suzuki that enjoyed
sustainable rapid growth with scale and competitiveness in India. Hyundai India was
established in 1996 in Chennai. It was relatively unknown; however, the company grew its
brand basedonits productand marketingstrategies.
The initial products were in the passenger call segment, and the company expanded its
coverage to utility vehicles after a few years of success in the passenger car industry.
Customers initially were the middle of the pyramid, automobile customers, but today the
range is so vast that it caters to the top of the pyramid as well as the bottom of the pyramid
automobile customers. The pricing has been set in a manner that is competitive to Maruti
Suzuki, theindustryleader aswell asthe marketleader.
The promotion was very intense, with celebrities promoting the product particularly
Shahrukh Khan. It is awholly-owned subsidiary ofHyundaiSouth Korea. Postliberalisation,
Hyundai India was probably the first company to have set foot as a hundred percent owned
subsidiary without looking at a joint venture to support the local operations. The place is
through its channels. The interactions are essentially through the retail channels between the
company andthecustomers.
Marketing of automobiles,of course,hasbeen perfectedbyseveral automotivemeasuresover
decades globally; however, optimizing the marketing strategy and business development
strategy for India has been done very well by Maruthi Suzuki first and now by Hyundai

Motor India, although several companies such asNissan Reno, Skoda,andothersentered the
Indianmarket.
No company has been as successful as Hyundai India. This is because of the integrated and
balanced network of research and development manufacturingandchannels thathas beenset
up by Hyundai India. The business development strategy was again a close follower of the
business strategyin respectof HyundaiIndia.
(ReferSlide Time: 16:24)
We now cover a new segment, id fresh food was a company which came intobeing toserve
the Indian middle class and the working class. Over the years, the Indian families became
very busy with work. Yet the Indian families retained their taste for tradition. To meet this
gap, iD developed a new category fromits inceptionin 2005intermsof ready-to-cookbatter
and otherfood items.
It is an all-natural preservative-free batter initially for idli and dosa, which were the popular
breakfast items in the Indian household. Customers were middle of the pyramid customers,
but it has moved to the top of the pyramid and a little lower than the middle of the pyramid
demographic base.
Pricing has always been premium because it requires a cold chain all through to be able to
successfully deliver itself to the consumer. Point of sale advertisement has been the main

driver for its popularity. It is an Indianstartup privatelimited company;theplaceis theretail
channels.
Category marketingisan importantcomponentof businessdevelopment.Product technology,
however, is crucial for the category to be established and grown. Product-driven strategic
marketing hasledmanystartup firms toscaleup.
The manufacture of batter with the native taste but in a preservative-free environment wasa
product challenge as well as a product accomplishment that IT achieved hence its strategic
success.
(ReferSlide Time: 18:08)
The Indian pharmaceutical industry is one of the most competitive, with hundreds of
manufacturers. In such an industry, mankind, established in 1995, became a large pharma
company,in fact,amongthetop-ranking companiesin India.
The capability to achieve that position was essentially due to the multiple therapy focus it
adopted from the very beginningandan unrelentingfocusonthe domesticmarket rather than
the pursuit of US market as many other companies try to do. Another company which did
very successfullyisErislife sciences.
Multiple products in multiple therapies, customers covering BoP, MoP, and ToP
demographics, low-cost pricing, strategy, and celebrity corporate brand building. In fact,
Amitabh Bachchan aggressively promoted the Mankind corporate brand even in COVID

times. Mankind came up with several advertisements which connected it to the hard and
daringwork donebytheIndianhealthcareworkers, paramedics,andsoon.
It is an Indian Startup; still, it is a private limited company; it has put its mark on the entire
distribution chain and controls in a strong manner the distribution and retail fundamentalsin
the pharmaceutical industry. Many people consider pharmaceutical marketing as a tactical
effort ratherthanasa strategiceffort.
However, mankind has demonstrated thatwith astrongbusinessstrategy andasingular focus
to achieve the mission of becoming a top-ranking firm.Theentire businessdevelopment can
take onabroad spectrumrole andpropelthecompany toward its mission.
(ReferSlide Time: 19:59)
Nazara Technologies is a platform company. It is very strong on digital services, digital
product space to some extent, and also gaming as an entry point in the learning area. It was
founded in 1999, got listed recently, and it focusesonproducts andservicesrelated togames
and learning.
Kids, families, schools, and institutions are the major customers for Nazara. Being a novel
company, it set itsown benchmark interms ofpricing.Word of mouthandinternet promotion
has been very helpful for Nazara Technologies to achieve its status. Again, it is an Indian
Startup listed recently, the place of marketing isthe entireglobal marketplacewhich requires
digital platform productsof this nature.

Technology-driven business development requires the company to focus on advanced
technologyplatforms asitmoves into thefuture.
(ReferSlide Time: 21:01)
The Indian chemical industry is recognizedfor its chemistryandchemical engineering skills.
SudarshanChemicals entered this fieldin1952.Today,wheneveryonetalksabout Chinaplus
one strategy and, therefore, the role for the specialty chemical industry,SudarshanChemical
obviously, comes upasa companywhichhad thevision for today’ssituation.Hopefully, with
the market opening up in addition to China’s dominance, there would be global heights that
canbe conqueredbySudarshanChemicals.
Specialty chemicals, dyes, and pigments are the key products of Sudarshan Chemicals; it
caters tothedemand from globalchemical andpharmaceuticalfirms. Pricing is higherthanin
China but lower than others. Promotion is essentially throughB2Bcommunicationchannels,
it is a public limited company listed on the stock exchanges, and it has a universal
marketplace.
Marketing of chemicals falls into the B2B category; aligning withthestrategic plansand the
strategic sourcing plans of the customers is vital for a B2B company to achieve sustainable
success and this would be the path the Indianchemical companies shouldtake toachievethe
global scalethat theyarecapable ofachieving.

(ReferSlide Time: 22:24)
Kaleesuwari Refinery is an edible oil company; edible oils constitute an essential kitchen
item. Very early on, Tomco Bombay oil mills and other companies have been in the oil
refining area, but no company has looked at the scale in edible oil manufacture as
Kaleesuwari hasdonein that mannerKaleesuwari hascome upasa pioneeringcompany.
It is to the credit of the humble founders of Kaleesuwari Refinery that starting with just an
edible oil shop in 1973, the refinery grew into an integrated manufacturing and marketing
business. Edible oils with a focus on sunflower oil represent the key product; homemakers,
hotels, and restaurants are the customers, and pricing is a bit premium compared to other
competing edibleoils.
Strong TV communication and very innovative and evocative TV advertisements have been
the banner ads for Kaleesuwari. It is an Indian private limited company still, and it operates
strongly in the states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Kerala. It has set its entry into Andhra
Pradesh, Telangana, Orissa, and Maharastra. Kaleesuwaris’s master stroke wasits promotion
of sunfloweroil asa heart-healthycooking oil.
The promoters were not content with just staying on with sunflower oil. They moved into
various other edible oils, including a very unique temple lamp oil or a home lamp oil called
Deepam, which is a mix of five vegetable oils, each of which has got significance in the
Indian religious parlance. In addition, they have olive oil, coconut oil, and various other
FMCG productssuchasdals.

The business development of sunflower oil has set a scorching pace whichthe otherproduct
lines are struggling to keep pace with. So, the business development strategy has to be
customized to the products that a company chooses. Over time no one formula fits every
product, and the existence of strong brand power does not necessarily translate into brand
powerfor otherproducts.
Kaleesuwari iscurrentlyengagedindevelopingbusiness strategiesandbusiness development
approaches that are customised to multiple product clients and, therefore, enhance the scale
and scopeof theKaleesuwari Refineryina significantmanner.
(ReferSlide Time: 25:10)
Pharmaceuticals is a therapeutically diversifiedbusiness. Glenmarkwasfounded in1977,but
it did not follow the route taken by other pharmaceutical companies. It has decided to focus
on dermatology at that point of time. It was an ignored subject for the established
pharmaceuticalcompanies.
Upon consolidation in the dermatological field,the company expandedinto multi-therapeutic
operations, and today it is a very well-diversified company with a global spread as well the
patients,hospitals,and clinics orthe customersfor anypharmaceuticalcompany.
However, being a dermatological product which had its specialized doctors to be catered to
and this focus has helped Glenmark to drive its field force to singular success based on the

limited number of doctors and extensive promotion it adopted; pricing was competitive, the
doctor-focusedmedicaldetailing wasthechief flankofpromotion.
In any case, medical companies pharmaceutical companies cannot solicit prescriptions and
cannot advertise their products. Indian public limited company was successful in its public
offer today.Itsmarketplacecovers theentire world.
Glenmark gained because of the singular starting focus in dermatology, and because it did
spread its resources too thin, it has been able to achieve the necessary financial muscle to
subsequently expand into diverse areas so,startwith thecoreventureinto theemerging areas
and thenbetonthefuturethat is thewaycompanies mustdotheir businessdevelopment.
(ReferSlide Time: 26:58)
Apollo Hospitals is a name which needs no introduction at all. Starting with a clinic in
Chennai, Doctor Pratap Reddy broke new ground by setting upthe first corporatehospitalin
Chennai bythenameApollo Hospitals.
It was established in 1983, and he developed the hospitals into a reputed pan-India hospital
chain. Apollo Hospitals was the first corporate hospital which brought multi-specialty
healthcare with comprehensive diagnostic and pharmacy services under its fold. The
customers, of course, were the patients, caretakers, and the families, as well as institutions
which requiredpatient services.

The pricing was premium, although certain beds were allotted to the common citizens.
Word-of-mouth advertisements andflexes, aswell asbannerads, promotedApolloHospitals’
image substantially. It is an Indian public limited company. It operates all through the India
through ownedaswellasfranchised hospitals.
Apollo Hospitals created its core brand by bringing to Indiathe Westernmodel of healthcare
practice with top-class doctors, paramedics, diagnostics, and pharmacies. The faith in the
Apollo hospitals treatment is so high that people from far-off regions come all the way to
Chennai; although those regions also have reputed hospitals over the years,itbecame oneof
themost reputedbrandsconsequentlyinIndia.
(ReferSlide Time: 28:34)
GRT Jewellers starting with a small jewellery shop in Chennai in 1964. An entrepreneur by
the name of G Rajendran brokenewground fromthe 1970s.Heset uplargeformatjewellery
shops in Chennai and other cities and made GRT Jewellers a household name and a brand.
GRT further diversified into the hotel business of gold, silver, diamonds and platinum.
Jewelleries and accessories, as appropriate in these precious metals are the ones that
constitute theentireproduct rangeofGRT.
Customers were individuals and families across segments,andthey continuetobe.Pricing is
competitive, and promotion has been through a varietyof meansofaggressiveadvertisement
connected GRT to the Indian families; however, the exchange schemes it offered and the
savingsscheme it offeredalsocreated stronggoodwill inthecustomers’ minds for GRT.

The savings-oriented and investment-oriented Indian population, on the one hand, and the
weddings and special occasion-oriented Indian population, on the other, became the twin
drivers of GRT jeweller’s growth.Themarketplace wasinterms ofselect metrosand tier-one
citieshere.
GRT demonstrated a seamless transition from small format stores to large format stores. It
also demonstrated how taking care ofthe specialneeds of thecustomersfor saving aswell as
an investment could position a company in a differential manner. In addition to that, more
attractive designs, more modern designs, and a range of manufacturing options provided the
flexibility whichthecustomerswanted fromalargeformat jewellery store.
(ReferSlide Time: 30:26)
Hatsun started in 1970 as a milk supply unit. It grew rapidly into a highly diversified dairy
products company. The coverage extends to the lack of dairy farmers. It hasbeen successful
in leveraging technology and transparency in a big wayacrossthe entirevalue chain ofdairy
farming, milk collection, milk processing, and milk delivery. The company ensured that
technologyand transparency drove itsunique positioning.
Households and businesses were happytotake upHatsun,although, at thatpoint oftime,that
is, at the time of its inception, milk supply was considered to be a governmental monopoly.
For a private company tobreachthat ceilingand comeinto theactive marketwasa challenge
which Hatsunachievedsingularly well.

Pricing was competitive compared to the governmental supply, and promotion was
comprehensive. Both ATL and BTL advertising worked very well for Hatsun, an Indian
public limited company, and the placewasessentiallyinterms ofsouth India.Hatsuncreated
its core business and brand by adopting scientific and responsible processes, and the Indian
agro and farming community was the key base on which Hatsuns business enterprise isnow
situated.
(ReferSlide Time: 31:59)
Groz engineering products is a medium-scale engineering enterprise which is based inDelhi
with a plant in Chennai. It started initially in 1976 as a manufacturer andsupplier ofbicycle
parts, the company evolved as a major man manufacturer of diversified hand tools, and it
supplies itshand toolsglobally.
The company grew with a balance of organic and inorganic growth. Groz was set up when
Indiawas notparticularlyknown for manufacturing qualitythatis inthe 1970s.So, itis tothe
credit of the promoter as wellas thecompany that itcould satisfy theglobal requirements for
qualityhand tools.
One of the important dictums the promoter of the company Anil Bammi gave to his sales
force was that for every sales call they do globally, they must come up with a new product
idea normally, companies try to discourage product proliferation. However,Groz flippedthis
proposition and madeitselfinterested incontinuousproductgrowthand howdid itachieve?

It is achieved through a balance of organic and inorganic development and also through its
mastery over the supply chain. It was design thinking which lived its customer experiences,
but also the supply chain capability that translated the customer demands into cost-effective
products withhigh quality.
The promotion was essentially in terms of direct relationships with the customers and
frequent customer visits. It stillcontinuestobe anIndianPrivateLimited Company, although
its coverage has been global. Design thinkingand customersatisfaction have beenat thecore
of GrozEngineering’s product success.
(ReferSlide Time: 33:53)
Notion Press started in 2012 essentially because one of the founders experienced deep
problems in publishing his own work; that problem gavethe ideaof havinga self-publishing
medium as a startup, it is for budding authors and writers to publish their works after due
editingand dueconsideration, ithas now evolvedinto aleadingself-publishing house.
It brings out the works of thousands of authorsfrom Indiaandotherpartsof theworld andis
a service company self-publishing of books as the main offering. Budding and established
writers and authors come to notion press for their works. It adopts multitier pricing in terms
of different layers of packaging for different grades of writers, from amateur writers to fully
accomplishedwriters.

The promotion has been intensively through digital socialmedia; itcontinuesto beanIndian
Private Limited company funded by the family internal generation founders as well as the
private equity investors. Notion Press is asuccessfulstartup that caughtthe writers’fancy, so
to say,with itsconceptand digitalpublishingexecution.
(ReferSlide Time: 35:14)
The pharmaceutical industry was known for its highly complex distribution mechanism. If
the MRP was 300, it had to be supported by a 100 rupee manufacturing price, or if the
manufacturing price was rupees 100, the MRP was so high as 300 rupees the trade took a
huge margin.So,it was aspacewhichwas waitingto becaptured.
However, the requirement that every pharmaceutical dispensing has to be based on a
prescription was one of the biggest hurdles apart from the power of the distribution system;
however, with the growth of the internet and the telecommunication network, the space was
ripefor disruption.
1 mg was one of the few pharmaceutical online pharmacies that came up in the last 7 to 8
years. It was established in 2015 to disintermediate the supply of medicines to patients
through digital technology. 1 mggrew rapidlytobecomeasuccessful onlinepharmacy. Now,
it is also into diagnostic services and online medical consultations. It also has the ability to
offer laboratoryservices.

It has become a Tata Group Company, but it continues as though it is still operating as a
startup. It has been supported by various business strategies, marketing strategies, deep
pockets provided by investors, and quick execution because, unlike any other product,
medicines havetobe delivered ontime.
Delivering medicines after 2 days or 3 days is unacceptable, and also the integrity of the
packaging is extremely important; that requires good warehousing, good relationships with
thechemists anddistributors, andalso toattractcustomersto theonline space,thewillingness
and theabilityto providedeep discounts.
That is possible because, as I said, therewas asignificantmarginbetween themanufacturing
cost and the maximum retail price that is offered. The skill in forging relationships with the
distributors and chemists and a dynamicdigitalplatform continueto drive1mgsuccesseven
asa partof theTataEmpire.
(ReferSlide Time: 37:37)
Zomato is a food delivery company. It started its life in 2008 as a food and review entity;
however, Zomato’s founders saw the potentialfor food deliveryandestablishedthe company
as a leading food supply company operating all over India. Its technology platform hasbeen
its USP.
As we all know, food delivery companies saw their high mark during the COVID period
when people preferred to stay indoors, hotels operated just as restaurants, and they were the

principal medium for meeting the culinary requirements and the food needs of the vast
population.
Zomato was ready with its digital platform to be ableto meetthishuge gapthat aroseduring
the COVID time,andtherefore, therehasbeen nolookingback thereafter. Discountedpricing
hasbeenthemainstayof thecompany, anddigitalandsocial media,andprint promotionhave
provided enough bandwidth in the marketplace for Zomato. Apart from this, the kind of
T-shirts thedeliverypeople wearand thebags thatthey deployalso providedhighvisibility in
themarketplace.It isaverysuccessful Indianstartupit isnow apublic limitedcompany.
However, it has also faced backlash for not running its operations on prudential business
parameters. The continuous loss-making has led to the stock going below the list price even
after itssuccessful listingandscale-up thereafter. So, itis alsoa lessonfor startupsto conduct
their business development in such a manner that while seeking a strong market presence in
the shortest frame of time, they also must focus on prudential methods of business
development.
Typically companies use long-term funds for short-term requirements in the startup era
because they are not so sure of running the operations based onbankcreditas per theproper
working capital principles. However, this is a position to which startups must move because
India is not aneconomy where hugeresourcescan bewasted intermsof buyingmarket share
through pricediscounts.
Therefore, through capitulate fusionsandif this trendcontinues,therecould bemany startups
who may not see the long light of day. They may be successful in the short term, but in the
long term,theymayfind it difficult torun withfunding wintersettinginthis startupspace.
It is time for companies to tighten their business development approach and become more
like mainstream companies, wherein every product generates revenue and profit. However,
coming back to the success of Zomato’s ability to develop a pan-India delivery force and
forgedrelationshipswith hotels andrestaurants drove Zomato’ssuccess.

(ReferSlide Time: 40:48)
We now come back to the template we have used throughout. The template covered 6 basic
drivers of business development; product or service, customer, pricing, promotion,
ownership, and the marketplace. We have also seen that these 6 have to be supported by
strategies in the domains of business, marketing, finance, and operations. When these ten
factors operate together both strategically and tactically, business development can be near
perfectbycompanies.
Each of the components may vary depending upon the nature of the industry and the
company; however, there is no denying the fact that these ten have to be kept in mind for a
company topursueits developmentof businessina strongmanner.
Thankyou! I look forward tobeing withyouagain inthenext week’s lectures.

