NPTEL COURSE
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
From Start to Scale
Week 1: Lectures 1 to 5
Business Fundamentals
Lecture 1: Understanding Business Development
Prof. C Bhaktavatsala Rao, Ph.D.
Ajit Singhvi Chair Professor
Department of Management Studies
Indian Institute of Technology Madras
and
Founder – LeaderCrest Academy

Introduction to the Course

About the Instructor, Prof. C Bhaktavatsala Rao…
• Received Ph.D. Degree in Industrial Management and M.Tech. Degree in Industrial
Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Chennai. Received B.E.
Degree in Mechanical Engineering from Sri Venkateswara University, Tirupati.
• Have over forty-eight years of diversified experience in strategic and operational
leadership of large reputed companies, including global MNCs, in India. My last
fulltime assignment was as Managing Director and Executive Chairman of Pfizer
Healthcare India Private Limited.
• Have been passionate about writing and publishing as well as teaching. Have over
170 publications in economic and business dailies and refereed journals.
• Have established LeaderCrest Academy for high quality academic publishing. Have
authored and published ten books under LeaderCrest banner over the last five years.
• Currently serving as Ajit Singhvi Chair Professor in Management Studies, DoMS, at
the Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Chennai.
• Have offered three Courses “Entrepreneurship: Perspectives of Business Strategy and
Economic Development”, “Leadership for India Inc: Practical Concepts and
Constructs”, and “Strategy and Technology: A Practical Primer” on NPTEL-Swayam
Platform. This course “Business Development: From Start to Scale” is the fourth one.

Business Development (BD)
BD is a
Identifying,
Developing partnership
defining and
products and process that co-
shaping the
services that creates value
known and
meet customer for the company
unknown
needs and its
customer needs
customers
Delivers on a
Shapes Mega Leverages
Socio-Economic
Trends Competencies
Purpose

NPTEL Course – Business Development
A comprehensive A unique integration Provides end-to-end
study of business of adjunct domains value chain
Integrates several
development such as strategic perspectives that
real-life examples
concepts, models, marketing, business are needed for
and case studies
methodologies, and strategy and effective business
tools business models development
Enterprise Growth,
Building Blocks of Drivers of Company and Creating the Right
Economic Prosperity,
Business Customer Connect Business Impact
Professional Fulfilment

Business Development: Course Structure… (1/3)
Lectures
Week Theme
1. Understanding Business Development
2. Marketing and Business Development
1 BUSINESS FUNDAMENTALS 3. Markets and Marketing
4. Strategy Formulation
5. Business Development Cases
6. Successful Businesses
7. Industry and Market
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
2 8. Vision, Mission and Strategy
STRATEGIES
9. Goals
10. Case Studies of Business Development Excellence
11. Industry and Business
12. Porter’s Five Forces Theory
INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND
3 13. Industrial Transformations
COMPANY ANALYSIS
14. Competitive Strategies
15. Company Analysis
16. Industry, Market and Business
17. Industry and Market Analysis
MARKET AND COMPETITOR
4 18. Market Structures
ANALYSIS
19. Demand Forecasting
20. Competitor Analysis
21. Customer Characteristics
22. Customer Typologies
CONNECTING WITH
5 23. Market Research and Design Thinking
CUSTOMERS
24. Customer bonding
25. Customer Relationship Management

Strategy and Technology: Course Structure… (2/3)
Week Theme Description
26. Market and Market Descriptors
27. Market and Product Segmentation
BUSINESS AND MARKET
6 28. Product-Market Segmentation
SEGMENTS
29. Segmentation Deep Dive
30. Market Attractiveness and Competitive Positioning
31. Branding
32. Brand Organisation
7 BRANDING AND PRICING 33. Advertising and Communication
34. Servitization
35. Pricing
36. A New IT Start-up
37. An FMCG Start-up
8 CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT 38. A Logistics Start-up
39. A Nutraceuticals Start-up
40. A Telecom Fightback
41. Collaborations
42. Strategic Alliances
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
9 43. Joint Ventures
STRUCTURES
44. Subsidiaries
45. Mergers and Acquisitions
46. Value Chain Competencies
47. Functional Competencies
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
10 48. Negotiating Skills
COMPETENCIES
49. Cultural Skills
50. Leadership Attributes

Strategy and Technology: Course Structure… (3/3)
Week Theme Description
51. Growth Strategies
52. Growth Examples
STRATEGIES FOR MARKETS
11 53. Fragmented Industries and Emerging Industries
AND INDUSTRIES
54. Mature Industries and Declining Industries
55. Global Industries and New Businesses
56. A Pharma Transformation
57. Pharma Strategic Alliances
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT 58. Business Turbulence
12
CASE STUDIES 59. Creating Value
60. From Start to Scale
In Closing
Multiple Enriching Case Studies, across Businesses and Industries
Start-ups Companies Conglomerates

Course Delivery…
Around 1600 data- and
12 Week, 60 Each week will
information-rich slides
Lecture Course; focus on one
5 Lectures per core theme;
Week with end- Each lecture will
of-the week cover specific
assignments topics
Presents global as well as
local perspectives of
strategic and tactical
business development
Will provide Will feature a
illustrative and few case studies
experiential of BD leading to
Images from public
examples enterprise value
domain or under Creative
throughout creation
Commons purely for
educational purposes.
Copyrights respected.

Unique Features
Multiple Adjunct
Areas Covered
Provides a detailed and integrated overview of the growth-driving domain of
business development
Lays out the strategies and tactics of business development through
multiple frameworks and models
Links up business development with strategic marketing to lead to
enterprise competitiveness, growth and sustainability.
Useful for a broad spectrum of students and working professionals to develop
and hone their strategic skills, integrating multiple technology insights.
Embeds Strategic
Marketing
Approaches

Upon Completion of the Course, Participants are Likely to…
Develop Critical Business Development Skills
Be a Development Visionary
Grasp the art
Leverage Multiple Functions
and science of
Appreciate how
formulating and Personal Gravitas
to be the
executing Understand and
visionaries and
business appreciate the
strategists of Become holistic
development role of multiple
business with professionals
approaches functions in
anticipation and
with personal
driving business
execution
gravitas that
development
translates to
positive
company image

The Domain of Business Development
Group
Integrates the various strategies, processes and tasks to drive a
firm’s business performance.
Requires close interface with various other functions, Corporate
aligning with the vision, mission, and strategy of the firm.
Both tactical and strategic in nature, involving initiatives within
Business
the company and between the company and its customers
Division
Vision and Business Functional
Mission Strategy Strategies
Product
Short Term Long Term Sustainable
Performance Performance Performance

Two Key Streams of Enquiry
Business development, with respect to a business and industry, is influenced by…
Supply-side Demand-
Industry
Customer
factors side factors
Nature Demographics
Industry Customer
factors factors Attitudes,
Competitors Beliefs,
Preferences
Environmental
Firm factors
factors
Collaborators Enablers
Behavioural
Product
response
factors
factors
The frameworks and constructs proposed will address the above in an interconnected manner

Course Level Learning Outcomes
Understand business development as a key
component of business strategy and corporate
development
Appreciate the role of heads of business
development as partners to the CEO and other
CXOs
Analyse how different contexts require different
business development strategies
Master the tools and techniques that build long-
term value for customers and companies for
business partnerships
In addition, hone the abilities to develop and present professional analysis through
formal presentations

Differences between Sales, Marketing and Business Development
Sales, Marketing and Business Development are not synonymous with each other. There are important differences.
Factor Sales Marketing Business Development
Essence The process of selling a product or The process of addressing the total The process of creating partnerships
service to a customer at a given market for a product to develop and between the company and other
point of time fulfil demand over a timeline stakeholders for developing business
Orientation Transaction between the firm and Experience of the customer with the Creating structures and relationships
the customer for mutual product for long term association for long term value creation
consideration
Focus Company needs and targets Customer needs and trends Business synergy between the
company and its customers
Scope Sale All activities including but not limited All activities related to but not
to market research, pilot, sale and limited to analysing mutual business
service needs and fulfilling the needs
Methodology Induce shoppers and customers to Create a customer-centric experience Develop a value proposition for
buy strategic association
Metrics Revenue and Profit Brand value Business growth
Rule Caveat Emptor Caveat Vendor Transparency
Techniques 4Ps (Product, Price, Place, 4 Vs (will be presented later) 4 Cs (will be presented later)
Promotion)
Skills required Selling and communication skills Conceptual and analytical skills Strategic business skills and Value
chain capabilities
Objective Business growth Sustainable business Sustainable strategic business growth
growth

Defining Business
Business is the activity of an organisation
to develop, manufacture, and/or market
products and/or services to individuals
or entities to earn revenues and profits
and generate returns to the investors

Some Types of Businesses
R&D
Businesses
Integrated Manufacturing
Businesses Businesses
Business
Typologies
Service Marketing
Businesses Businesses
Product
Businesses

Defining Business Development
Business development involves anticipating, identifying and developing opportunities for enhancing business.
Transactional
Reinforcing
By providing
Futuristic
products and
By developing
services to
collaborations,
By identifying
customers through
alliances, and
opportunities as per
commercial
partnerships with
the classic product-
relationships
business entities
market grid, also
spotting the mega-
trends of the future

Allied Functions and Processes
Sets the context and provides the direction
Strategy
Business
Development
Marketing Sales
Helps promote the company and the brand Leads to enhanced sales and business

The Selling Process
The Selling Process is a fairly standardised straightforward process between a seller and buyer in a marketplace
Prospecting Initial Contact Qualifying Lead Company
Product or
Proposal and Product
Approaching
Clarification Demonstration Service Sale
Customer
Sale Closing Cash Collection Repeat Contact
The selling process is judged by its ability to generate sustainable revenues and profits from the target groups.

The Strategic Marketing Process
The Strategic Marketing Process is a rigorous and customised process of discovery, development and execution.
Research
Identify Trends Define Market Product
Needs
Prove the Segment the
Market
Create Product
Concept Market
Align Business Position the Execute and
Business
and Market Company and Monitor the
Strategy the Product Marketing Plan
It is an internally and externally networked process that is aligned to business strategy for the firm’s sustainable growth.

The Business Development Process
Business Development is a conceptual and analytical process of fusing the company and customer value chains.
Identify Potential
Introspect on the Identify Value Points Partners with
Partner A
Company Value Chain and Value Gaps Complementary Value
Points and Gaps
Test the Strategic Discuss the Potential Value
Create a Combined
Feasibility and to Reinforce each
Value Proposition Proposition
Economic Viability other’s Value Chain
Align Business Market
Structure Partnership Execute and Monitor Partner B
Strategy and Business
Agreement the Partnership
Model
It is a networking and partnership process that is aligned to the business strategy for the firm’s sustainable growth.

What is Strategy?
Simply put, strategy is a plan of action to achieve certain goals. Many times, goals are also set by the strategy
process itself. Michael Porter popularized competitive strategy, rather than just strategy, as the key concept.
Is Strategy one of
Analysis or
Intuition?
Strategic
The Firm
Positioning
Industry Competitor
Industry Competition
Analysis Analysis
Strategic Core
Context Disciplines
Is Strategy a
Game of Mirrors?
The study of competitive strategy is considered integral to the study of any function. That’s because, for a firm, the
competitive strategy goes beyond the sum of functional strategies. The former must drive the latter, not vice versa.

Strategy
Strategy is the key driver of all things a firm or a business wants to do. Every entity will have an overall strategy
while each business will have a business strategy. Each function will also have its strategy. Strategy, therefore, is not
just one grand plan but is a network of multiple plans. Strategic architecture varies across firms and industries.
R&D
Strategy
Business
Strategy
Operations
IT Strategy
Strategy
Corporate
Strategy
Corporate
Conglomerate Strategy
Strategy
HR Marketing
Strategy Strategy
Finance
Strategy
While there will be a fair bit of iteration among various functions, and between functions on one hand and business
strategy on the other hand, typically business strategy leads to functional strategies.

Thank you!
25

NPTEL COURSE
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
From Start to Scale
Week 1: Lectures 1 to 5
Business Fundamentals
Lecture 2: Marketing and Business Development
Prof. C Bhaktavatsala Rao, Ph.D.
Ajit Singhvi Chair Professor
Department of Management Studies
Indian Institute of Technology Madras
and
Founder – LeaderCrest Academy

Marketing
Marketing is the activity, set of institutions,
and processes for creating, communicating,
delivering, and exchanging offerings that
have value for customers, clients, partners,
and society at large. (AMA, 2017)
27

Marketing Concept
Planning and coordination of all
Complete
company activities…. Value Chain
….around the primary goal of
Around the
satisfying customer needs is… Customer
….the most effective means to
Sustainable
attain and sustain a competitive Competitive
Advantage
advantage.
28

Market-Oriented Firms
29
smriF
detneirO-tekraM
All departments and personnel
are focused on customer needs
and competitive fulfilments
Smartphones
Develop and adapt products
and programmes to respond to
changes in the environment
Galaxy S22 Series
Conduct intense marketing
research prior to product
development
Galaxy A Series
Segment markets and position
appropriate products, with
tailored programmes
Galaxy M Series

Production Orientation Vs. Marketing Orientation
Business Activity Production Orientation Marketing Orientation
or Function
Product offering Develop and manufacture Develop and manufacture products
products as per available as per customer needs
competencies
Product range Narrow Broad
Pricing Based on costs and margins Based on perceived value
Market segments Homogenous Heterogenous
Product Product protection Customer appeal, additionally
packaging
Financing Third party Captive or networked
Promotion Technical Additionally, lifecycle value
30

Methods of Market Development
Growth predominantly from Growth driven by both product
additional markets expansion and market expansion
New
Markets
Most businesses
deploy a hybrid of
the four modes of
commerce
Existing
Markets
Growth predominantly from Growth predominantly from
improved market penetration product expansion
Existing Products New Products
31

Categories of Marketing
Direct to Business (D2B) through
Direct to Consumer (D2C) through
customer portal, auction sites and
company digital sites
other digital means
Digital
Most businesses
deploy a hybrid of
the four categories of
commerce
Physical
Layered selling to consumers
Layered selling to businesses
through wholesale and retail
through intermediaries
chains
Business to Consumer Business to Business
32

Marketing and Business Development
Business
Sales
Marketing
Development
Provides market Provides strategic
Marketing
inputs to business inputs to business
strategy strategy
Enhances the
Executes based
scope and Business
on finalised
effectiveness of Development
business strategy
business strategy
Has short and
Has medium and
medium term Revenues
long term impact
impact on
and Profits
on business
business
33

Marketing Functionalities
Business
Strategy
Sales
Sales
Service Marketing
Promotion
Strategy
Marketing
Marketing
Operations
Advertising Spare Parts
Finance
Revenues
and Profits
34

Business Development
Business Development is the activity, set of
institutions, and processes for identifying
medium and long term business
opportunities and creating relational
frameworks that ensure complementarity
and mutual benefit on a sustainable basis
35

Business Development Functionalities
Business
Identify Macro-
Strategy
Markets
Business
Manage Mergers Create Long-
Development
and Acquisitions Term Networks
Business
Development
Integration
Enhance
Create Joint
Business through Revenues and
Ventures
Alliances
Profits
36

The Roots and Role of Business Development
Improving
Single business
Business companies
Established
Multi-business
Diversifying
companies and
Business
conglomerates
Companies
Start-up
Securing the
businesses in the
Niche
initial phase
New
Start-up
Securing
businesses in the
Multiple Niches
ramp-up phase
Energy, Retail, Space Launch Delivery Service
Passenger Cars
Telecom Vehicles Spectrum
37

BD by Established Single Business Companies
38
seinapmoC
ssenisuB
elgniS
BD by Established Single Business Companies
Expand markets for the new
Strong strategic marketing
product variants capabilities
Add new product variants in
Strong sales and marketing
the current product family
capabilities
for the current markets
Expand markets for the Strong marketing
current product line capabilities
Improve market share for
Strong sales and sales
the current product line in
promotion capabilities
the current markets
tnempoleveD
ssenisuB
fo
eloR
gnisaercnI
All the above require multi-functional support – from R&D to Quality and from Finance to Strategy, for example

Established Single Business Company
2021
2015
International
Multiple
markets,
convenience
2010 with
food
presence in
Coverage of
products
cities of USA
most Indian
such as
metros and and Middle
paneer,
2005 top Tier 1 parota and East
Idli Batter
cities with
coffee
in Chennai
batter
decoction
and
products
Bengaluru
39

BD by Established Diversifying Business Companies
40
ssenisuB
gniyfisreviD
seinapmoC
Innovate to create new
Strong visionary,
mega trends and new missionary and strategic
businesses capabilities
Spot emerging mega trends
Strong business strategy
and prepare for product- and strategic marketing
market transformations capabilities
Create new product-market Strong strategic marketing
niches capabilities
Improve current product-
Strong sales and marketing
market depth and breadth
capabilities
in every business
tnempoleveD
ssenisuB
fo
eloR
gnisaercnI
All the above require multi-functional support – from R&D to Quality and from Finance to Strategy, for example

Established Diversifying Business Companies
2020s
2010s
Electric Vehicles
Electric Batteries
2000s
Product-market
Renewable Power
diversification
Hydrogen Power
1990s
Globalisation of alongside business Super Apps
consolidation for
businesses:
growth
Beverages, Steel,
Operational
Automobiles,
excellence and
Hotels etc.
Product
excellence
41

BD by Start-ups in the Initial Phase
42
seinapmoC
pu-tratS
ssenisuB
Strong strategic business
Establish sustainable
and strategic marketing
competitive advantage
skills
Achieve market breadth
Strong sales and strategic
and depth marketing capabilities
Commercial launch and Strong sales and marketing
initial sale capabilities
Launch test and pilot
Strong technical selling
marketing skills
tnempoleveD
ssenisuB
fo
eloR
gnisaercnI
All the above require multi-functional support – from R&D to Quality and from Finance to Strategy, for example

A Start-up in the Initial Phase
2019: Commercial 2022:Competitive
Launch Advantage
• Indiegogo • Pandemic
• Market to Fund management
• Social media • Operating System (OS)
• B2C plus B2B
marketing as the competitive
advantage
• Word of mouth
• Unbundling of the OS
2018: Test 2020: Market Depth
Marketing and Breadth
43

BD by Start-ups in the Ramp-up Phase
44
-tratS
pu-gnipmaR
ssenisuB
seinapmoC
pu
Become a pan-market Strong strategic business
and strategic marketing
phenomenon
skills
Achieve market Strong sales, sales
promotion and strategic
breadth and depth
marketing capabilities
Strong business strategy
Create multiple
and strategic marketing
product-market niches
skills
Improve the breadth
Strong technical selling
and depth of the niche skills
tnempoleveD
ssenisuB
fo
eloR
gnisaercnI
All the above require multi-functional support – from R&D to Quality and from Finance to Strategy, for example

A Start-up in the Ramp-up Phase
2022
2020
2018
2016
Reinforced Expanded Rapid Operating in
digital App offerings growth and 500 plus
penetration Indian cities,
Integrated Enhanced
in food Pan India
payment and restaurant
delivery
order relationships Food
tracking Aided by Delivery
Reinforced
systems Covid-19
delivery Package
pandemic
organisation Delivery
Instant
Groceries
45

Markets and People
Individual
Point of Sale
Customer
Customer
Retail Store
Groups
Market
Retail Mall
Segment
Digital Universe Customer
Universe
46

Sales
• Earns revenue for the company in
exchange for product or service for
the customer
Synergy of
Sales,
Marketing
Marketing
• Seeks customer clusters who have
and Business homogeneity of needs
Development
Business Development
• Prospects and develops relationships
with major customer groups for
current or future products
47

Three Approaches to Business Development
Product
• Product fulfils a novel need
Driven • Product creates appeal
Digital Watch
Customer
• Customer has choices
Driven • Customer evaluates
Automobiles
Context • A dynamic product-market
match
Driven
• Adaptive business development
Mutual Funds
48

Marketing – BD Gradation: A Pharma Example
Sales and Marketing Business Development
Markets Doctor Clinic Hospital Pharmacy - Pharmacy - GPOs - GPOs -
Physical Digital Private Govnmnts
Patients
Cardiac
Pulmonary
Vascular
Gastro
Endocrin
Oncology
Nephro
O&G
Paediatrics
Derma
Others
49

Thank you!
50

NPTEL COURSE
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
From Start to Scale
Week 1: Lectures 1 to 5
Business Fundamentals
Lecture 3: Markets and Marketing
Prof. C Bhaktavatsala Rao, Ph.D.
Ajit Singhvi Chair Professor
Department of Management Studies
Indian Institute of Technology Madras
and
Founder – LeaderCrest Academy

Marketing Strategy
Marketing strategy is the planning and execution of how a firm can exchange its products and services with
individuals or organizations for a consideration. The consideration can be cash in respect of for-profit companies
and goodwill or just a service motive in respect of not-for-profit organizations. Virtually anything can be marketed.
Goods Services Events Experiences Persons
Places Properties Entities Information Ideas
The Firm The Marketplace The Customers
Supply Fulfilment Demand
Marketplace is a nebulous concept that is core and central to marketing strategy. Marketplace is part physical and
part virtual – and in both cases very real. Marketplaces can be focused (limited) and pervasive (universal).

Traditional Marketplaces
A marketplace is one in which an interaction or cash-consideration exchange takes place between the
sellers and buyers. Along with the evolution of trade-based economy, the marketplaces evolved over the
centuries, each of the formats supplementing rather than eliminating the established ones, and all physical.
The marketplaces range from institutional platforms to self-entrepreneurial ones. Each has its intrinsic features
and characteristics. Marketing makes the marketplace effective in fulfilling the buyer-seller motivations.

Digital Marketplaces
One of the pathbreaking changes that has occurred over the last two decades has been a radical
redefinition of the marketplace, thanks to creative business models that are aided by digital technologies.
The marketplace transformations have moved from ‘aggregation and disintermediation’ model to value-added
solution models that bring together multiple processes for greater customer experience. Digital needs Physical.

Demand Types
A good marketing strategy identifies different types of demand and comes up with matched solutions.
• Consumers dislike the •Demand is seasonal, cyclical in
Negative Irregular
product or service a predictable manner
Demand Demand
• Consumers may even pay to •Demand is random and quite
avoid the product or service unpredictable
• Consumers unaware of the •Consumers certainly need and
Non-existent demand consume the product in full
Full Demand
Demand • Consumers disbelieve the •Consumers encourage
need or the product extensions and variants
• Consumers feel the need • Consumers keep asking for
Latent Overfull
but cannot express more than can be provided
Demand Demand
• Consumers think demand • Overflowing demand masks
cannot be fulfilled megatrends that could arise
• Consumers lose interest in • Consumers chase incorrect
Declining the product Deviant product prescriptions
Demand • The need itself becomes less Demand • Consumers drawn towards
relevant ‘sin products’

Understanding Marketing
The following is a conceptual framework of markets. Flow of products/services and money is the key characteristic.
Resources Resources
Resource Markets
Money Money
Taxes,
Services, Services,
goods
money money
Taxes
Manufacturer Government
Consumer Markets
Markets Markets
Taxes, goods
Services
Services,
Taxes,
money
goods
Money Money
Intermediary
Goods and services Markets Goods and services
Structure of Flows in Modern Exchange Economy
The important aspect in the modern economy is that every market transaction has a tax contribution to the government.

Core Marketing Interactions
In a simple and common marketing system, the focus on the interactions between the industry characterized
by several sellers and the markets, characterized by number of buyers (individuals or institutions).
Communication
Goods/Services
Industry Market
(a collection of sellers) (a collection of buyers)
Money
Information
A Simple Marketing System
In today’s times, information has become an overwhelmingly important factor in any marketing interaction.
Considering that any interaction is a marketing interaction, information influences both supply and demand.

Core Marketing Concepts
Listed below are the marketing concepts that are an essential part of any marketer’s lexicon and practice.
Core Marketing Concepts
Needs, Wants and Demands
Target Markets, Positioning and Segmentation
Offerings and Brands
Marketing Channels
Paid, Owned and Earned Media
Impressions and Engagement
Value and Satisfaction
Supply Chain
Competition
Cooperation and Collaboration
Marketing Environment
Marketing management covers all of the above so that firms can do business with customers who fulfil their needs.

Marketing Universe
Marketing universes are created based on exploration. Global trading had its origins based on such explorations.
Local
Local
Companies
Markets
National
Companies
Regional Global State
Markets Markets Markets
Export Oriented
Companies
National
Markets SEZ Companies
Global supply chains based on outsourcing and offshoring have created new marketing universes for
companies. Similarly, government policies enabled companies explore global markets ahead of local markets.

Marketing Chain
In many products and many markets, cooperatives and government intermediaries help push the marketplace canvas.
Ethiopian farmers Farmers sell the Coffee is washed,
grow and harvest beans to Fair Trade dried and packaged
coffee beans Cooperative for shipment
Alternative Trading
Organisation Coffee is sold directly
transports beans to or via retail channels
the developed world
The Supply Chain For Coffee
The actual supply chain tends to be more involved and complex than the above. Resource sufficiency and
conversion efficiency determine the evolution of a product’s or company’s supply chain.

Holistic Marketing
As with other functions, the holism in marketing may be clouded by the association an individual has with a facet.
Marketing Senior Other Product & Services
Channels
Department Management Departments Communications
Price
Integrated
Internal
Marketing
Marketing
Holistic
Marketing
Sales Revenue
Performance Relationship
Brand & Customer Marketing Marketing
Equity
Ethics
Social Financial Community
Environment Legal Customers
Partners
Employees
The job of the marketing manager will be effective when the employees see it more than as a just functional task.

The 4 Ps of Marketing Mix
Marketing Mix has been one of the earliest foundations of marketing theory and practice. The 4 Ps are still relevant.
Marketing Mix
PRODUCT
PLACE
Product Variety
Channels
Quality
PRICE PROMOTION Coverage
Design
Assortments
Features
List Price Sales Promotion Locations
Brand Name
Discounts Advertising Inventory
Packaging
Allowances Sales Force Transport
Sizes
Payment Period Public Relations
Services
Credit Terms Direct Marketing
Warranties
Cashbacks Trade-in
Returns
Exchanges
Loyalty points
Any marketing strategy requires the components of the marketing mix to be fully checked out and finalised.

Additional 4 Vs of New Age Marketing
There is a clear rationale for considering the additional 4 Vs as a value addition for the current 4 Ps.
Marketing Mix New Age Marketing Mix Rationale for the
Four Ps Additional Four Vs Additional Four Vs
Product Validated experience Customers need validated experience
more than functionality
Place Velocity PoSis more widespread than a dealer
point
Promotion Vendor’s Responsibility In the circular economy, production and
consumption must be responsible
Price Value over lifetime Purchase cost plus lifecycle operating
cost minus trade-in price at NPV
The Evolution of Marketing Management
New age marketing requires both the traditional 4 Ps and the 4 Vs suggested above.

Internal Marketing Environment
Internal marketing environment is no longer purely internal; it is now a networked ecosystem related to the firm.
Seeking Growth;
Infrastructure-driven
The Firm
Return-seeking on
Financiers Suppliers Business-related
investments made
The Firm’s
Internal
Environment
Need-driven; Also,
constitute the Customers Distributors Multi-channel
demographic
environment
Dealers
Alliance-based
The study of internal and external environment is very much in the scope of structural analysis of the industry.

External Marketing Environment
External marketing environment is a key driver of marketing opportunity and change. It drives marketing strategy.
Known; Predictable; Also, a
key driver of customer
needs
Demographic
Environment
Historical; Aspirational;
Susceptible to Politico-Legal Economic
Globally-linked
change Environment Environment
External
Marketing
Environment
Technological Socio-cultural
Transformative Native; National
Environment Environment
Natural
Environment
Resource based
Strategic marketing requires a thorough understanding of how the external environment will shape
and how the internal environment can be shaped to respond to the external environment.

Conceptual Evolution
Marketing harmony is a process of blending the internal firm environment with the external marketing
environment seamlessly. This requires marketing to partner corporate/business strategy as well as other
functional strategies. The five evolutionary phases of marketing approach, as viewed by firms, is as below.
The Production Concept (The Oldest, from the Ford Model T Days)
Feature Diversification Concept (The GM Model)
Standardised
products at the
The Selling Concept
lowest costs. Diversify features
and enhance
Mass distribution. The Marketing Concept
quality. Firm needs to
push itself to sell The Strategic
The beginning of
Marketing Concept
more to its Customer-
market
consumers. oriented
segmentation.
Predicting or
Enhanced sales influencing
shaping mega-
will lead to better approach.
trends of the
economics.
Builds loyalty to future to co-
create novel
the brand and
customer
the company by
experiences.
serving the
customer
effectively. Seamless
strategic fit,
internal and
external.

Strategic Marketing
Strategic marketing is the process of aligning the marketing function of an organization with the long term vision and
mission of the organization such that the firm secures competitive advantage in the short, medium and long term.
• Futuristic Business
Long Term
• Value Creation
• Emerging Business
Medium Term
• Market Share and
Revenue Share
• Current Business
Short Term
• Revenue and Profit
Maximization
Strategic Marketing has to work alongside Strategic Planning to lead the company on long term sustainable growth.

Customer-Centricity
An inverted organisation pyramid with customers on the top and the frontline people being next to them, with
customer interface across all the organisational levels reflects the new customer-centric organisation.
Traditional Organisation Pyramid Customer-Oriented Organisation Pyramid
Top
CUSTOMERS
Manage
-ment
C
C
U U
FrontlinePeople
MiddleManagement
S S
T T
O O
M
M
FrontlinePeople MiddleManagement
E E
R R
Top
S S
Manage
CUSTOMERS
-ment
In fact, customer centricity must percolate and permeate all organisational levels and roles. It is a cultural anchor.

Culture of Customer Centricity – 1
The culture of customer centricity requires that every department and individual of the firm must be customer-centric.
Assessing Which Company Departments Are Customer-Minded
R&D
• They spend time meeting customers and listening to their problems
• They welcome the involvement of marketing, manufacturing and other departments to each new project
• They benchmark competitor's products and seek “best of class” solutions
• They solicit customer reactions and suggestions as the project progresses
• They continuously improve and refine the product on the basis of market feedback
Purchasing
• They proactively search for the best suppliers
• They build long-term relationships with fewer but more reliable, high-quality suppliers
• They don’t compromise quality for price savings
Manufacturing
• They invite customers to visit and tour their plants
• They visit customer plants and working spaces
• They willingly work over-time to meet promised delivery schedules
• They continuously search for ways to produce goods faster and/or at lower cost
• They continuously improve product quality, aiming for zero defects
• They meet customer requirements for “customization” where possible
• Marketing
• They study customer needs and wants in well-defined market segments
• They allocate marketing effort in relation to the long-run profit potential of the targeted segments
• They develop winning offers for each target segment
• They measure company image and customer satisfaction on a continuous basis
• They continuously gather and evaluate ideas for new products, product improvements, and services
• They urge all company departments and employees to be customer-centered
While Marketing is the department of direct interface, various other functions can learn a lot with customer-centricity.

Culture of Customer Centricity – 2
Sales is one department that has direct and perpetual interface with customers. Typically, in the short term, sales
executes what marketing conceptualises and develops.
Sales
• They have direct experience of fulfilling the customer needs
• They understand and execute on customer contracts
• They are responsible for meeting the company’s sales targets
• They acts as the transactional and translational arm of Marketing
• They serve the same customers for a long period of time
Logistics
• They set a high standard for service delivery time and meet this standard consistency
• They operate a knowledgeable and friendly customer service department that can answer questions, handle complaints, and
resolve problems in a satisfactory and timely manner
Accounting
• They prepare periodic “profitability” reports by product, market segment , geographic areas (regions, sales, territories), order
sizes, channels and individual customers
• They prepare invoices tailored to customer needs and answer customer queries courteously and quickly
Finance
• They understand and support marketing expenditures (e.g., image advertising) that produce long-term customer preference and
loyalty
• They tailor the financial package to the customer’s financial requirements
• They make quick decisions on customer creditworthiness
Public Relations
• They send out favorable news about the company and “damage control” unfavorable news
• They act as an internal customer and public advocate for better company policies and practices
Source: Philip Kotler, Kotler on Marketing (New York: Free Press, 1999), pp 21-22. Reprinted with
permission of The Free Press, a Division of Simon & Schuster Adult Publishing Group
A firm benefits when even staff and service functions consider the customers and their needs in their operations.

Strategic Marketing Options
Strategic marketing has several options to accomplish its mission which may look strikingly similar to marketing as is
usually carried out. The difference lies in strategic marketing looking beyond the current to capture the future.
Product:
Features, Specs, Utility, Novelty, Quality etc.,
Market:
Customers, Segments, Needs and Wants etc.,
Pricing:
Gross price, net price etc.,
Promotion:
Information, Communication, Influencing etc.,
People:
Founders, Management, Salesforce
Place:
The distribution, delivery and service network etc.,
All the above are great examples of Marketing establishing a brand or growing a company and its business.
However, the companies are also vulnerable to similar marketing strategies deployed by competition.

Thank you!
72

NPTEL COURSE
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
From Start to Scale
Week 1: Lectures 1 to 5
Business Fundamentals
Lecture 4: Strategy Formulation
Prof. C Bhaktavatsala Rao, Ph.D.
Ajit Singhvi Chair Professor
Department of Management Studies
Indian Institute of Technology Madras
and
Founder – LeaderCrest Academy

Strategy Formulation
Strategy formulation is a process that begins with setting the vision for the company, developing the
strategy and executing it as per a timeline. The major building blocks are presented below.
Strategy
• Vision • Milestones
• Mission • Metrics
• Where to compete
• Goals • Monitoring
• How to compete
• Feedback
• What resources to
deploy
• How to organise
Vision Execution
There are many aspects of strategy formulation that are linked to the context of the firm’s business and
industry. While strategy is holistic, it has many components – divisional or functional, for example.

Strategy Hierarchy
Depending on whether the entity is a conglomerate, company or business, strategy tends to be multi-layered.
Lines shown
Conglomerate illustratively
Company A Company B Company C
Business A1 Business A2 Business B1 Business B2 Business C1 Business C2
R&D
Operations
Marketing
Finance
HR
Others

The Strategy Process
Strategy has three interconnected processes of planning, implementing and control, conducted periodically.
Planning Implementing Controlling
Corporate Planning Organizing Measuring Results
Division Planning Resourcing
Evaluating Results
Business Planning Implementing
Taking Corrective
Product Planning Action
Strategic planning process is usually annual with a five-year framework and the first year is usually the firm
budget. However, given the dynamic nature of the environment, projects get evaluated constantly.

Strategic Management: Practices and Outcomes
Strategic management covers several concepts, theories, frameworks and models that are available for
companies to formulate strategy and execute to accomplish the desired outcomes.
Illustrative
External Internal
Expansion Integration
Analysis Analysis
Strategy Strategy
Diversification Restructuring
Formulation Execution
Collaboration Alliance Revenue Profit
Merger and Market
Joint Venture Market Share
Acquisition Capitalisation

The Comprehensive Strategy Framework
EXTERNAL
Programmes and
Vision and
Nature •Reason for
Tactics
Mission existence
Society
Economy
Industry
Objectives •Results to
accomplish
Budgets
•Plans to
Strategies achieve the
mission and
objectives
INTERNAL
Values
Culture Policies
Structure Procedures
Resources
stluseR/ecnamrofreP
Environmental Strategy Evaluation
Strategy Formulation
Scanning Implementation and Control
Decision making
guidelines
Feedback/Learning: Make Corrections as Needed

Leaders Label Strategies
Leaders generally tend to look at strategies as ‘labelled process-outcomes’ that propel their firms towards the
desired results. They see strategies as ones that transform their companies in terms of certain key themes.
Strategy practice has evolved to appeal to
leaders in terms of three broad categories.
Competitive Strategies
Corporate Strategies
Functional Strategies
Cost leadership, Differentiation,
Integration, Diversification,
Market share building, Product
Niche positioning
Venturing, Merger, Acquisition,
portfolio development,
Globalization
Operational excellence, etc.
Whichever way strategy is viewed, its linkages with external environment and internal capabilities cannot be
ignored. Great leaders build internal capabilities that can proactively cope with environmental dynamics.

The Essential Business Platform
Every business within a corporation and the corporation itself requires a combination of vision, mission
and values, strategy, structure and execution. This applies irrespective of the type and scale of the
business, the nature of the industry, and the scale and scope of the company.
A view of what the business or Vision, A series of approaches and
company should be a over 5- steps to convert the vision and
Mission, Strategy
year or 10-year frame, and how mission into reality
it should conduct itself and Values
Undertaking, through the
structure, of various acts and
A platform for the business and
Structure Execution
activities required to convert
the related organization to
the strategy into reality
execute the strategy
Within these, vision and mission stay for long, though they may be reviewed and reconfirmed
periodically. Great values stay on for perpetuity. In contrast, strategy, structure and execution constitute
the core triad to which the leaders must accord continuous attention.

Vision and Mission
The vision and mission statements of leading global pharmaceutical makers are as below:
Pfizer GlaxoSmithKline
•We apply science and our global resources to •We are a science-led global healthcare company
bring therapies to people that extend and with a special purpose: to help people do more,
significantly improve their lives. feel better, live longer.
Bristol-Myers-Squibb
Merck
•To discover, develop, and deliver innovative
•We aspire to be the premier research-intensive
medicines that help patients prevail over serious
biopharmaceutical company in the world
diseases.
Novartis Amgen
•Our mission is to discover new ways to improve •Amgen strives to serve patients by transforming the promise
and extend people's lives. Our vision is to be a of science and biotechnology into therapies that have the
power to restore health or save lives. In everything we do, we
trusted leader in changing the practice of
aim to fulfillour mission to serve patients.
medicine.
Abbott Roche
•Live your best life, now and in the future. •Doing now what patients need next
AstraZeneca Allergan
•We push the boundaries of science to deliver life- •To continue as an innovative, technology driven, global
changing medicines. health care company focused on pharmaceuticals in specialty
markets that deliver value to customers, satisfy unmet
medical needs and improve patients' lives.

Crafting a Mission Statement
A clear thoughtful mission statement, developed collaboratively, provides a shared sense of purpose,
direction and ownership at levels of the firm. A good mission statement will have six major characteristics.
• Limited goals Long • Usually 5 to 10 years
Concise
• Meaningful Term • Sustainable
• Reflects values • Motivates the people
Values Inspiring
• Ensures integrity • Creates ownership
• Defines future • Follows the vision
Clarity Bridge
• Provides timeline • Guides the strategy
Business history has many examples of leadership missions enabling game-changing products and businesses.

Strategic Growth Framework: Hospira
• Keep patients first, • Drive growth and
with the world’s largest competitiveness with
range of sterile investments in India,
injectable products and for expansion,
medical devices integration and
diversification
Vision
with Strategy
Mission
Structure Execution
• Own/create world-class • Ensure agile execution
Manufacturing and on multiple fronts, with
R&D facilities in India cultural transformation
with network
collaboration

Strategy Panned Out as a Set of Programmes
Strategy is usually implemented in a project or program mode, the synchronized culmination of which
results in competitive advantage for a firm. An example from Hospira’s India strategy 2010-15.
SN Project or Program
1 Acquire Orchid’s sterile antibiotics injectables business, both Manufacturing and R&D.
2 Double the acquired antibiotics Manufacturing and R&D capacity.
3 Establish biologics R&D facility.
4 Establish medical device R&D facility.
5 Establish non-antibiotics sterile injectables facility.
6 Acquire antibiotics API business, sterile and non-sterile, Manufacturing and R&D.
7 Establish global centres of excellence in Medical Affairs and Regulatory Affairs.
8 Conduct product and technology transfers to Indian sites.
9 Rationalise global development and manufacturing footprint.
10 Enhance commitment to Oncology joint venture.
The India strategy resulted in enhanced capacity, lower costs, and increased global business for Hospira.

Structural Barriers
There exist several ways in which a firm can raise structural barriers to strengthen the position of the
firm against forays by competition. These can be raised only through clear strategies and execution.
Difficult to replicate Create patent estate
products proactively
Own/ dominate Judiciously
channel access integrate/ diversify
Ensure preferred
Build brand equity
supplier access
Ensure purchase Co-own, Co-share
stickiness facilities
Increase scale and Maintain hard-to-
scope economics imitate EHS and ESG
Raising the structural barriers, including entry/mobility barriers, is the most defensive play for a firm.

Business is All About Delivering Results
Leaders of corporations achieve results by deploying products/services, facilities, people and capital for
the marketplace. The purpose is to serve people, businesses, markets and ecosystems.
People
Facilities and Products and
Vendors Services
Businesses
Markets
Companies
Ecosystems
Capital Resources Human Resources
Strategic leadership is also about its own distinct process alchemy—one that makes ideas take shape
as plans and get executed to deliver the desired results.

Core Purpose Doesn’t Change
While the previously considered shifts in operating models and structures are dramatic, the underlying core
value – customer centricity – does not change. The greater the customer centricity, the easier the transition.
Financial Empowerment
Digital
personalization
in Banking
Autonomous/
Better Customer Service Omnichannel Mobility as a Service
Connected
Marketing
Automobiles
Customer
Service
as the
Core
Aligning Farm Purpose
Productivity and Farmer
Farm
Pharmaceuticals Healthcare as Patient Right
Security Modernization
Renewables
Concern for the Planet
Leaders should not look at industry restructuring only in terms of structural and strategic factors. Instead, they
should appreciate each and every change to strengthen how customers are served. Leadership’s primary
engagement should be with the customer. Ways of serving could vary but the ways are not the primary purpose –
the customer is the primary purpose. The locus must change from firm-customer to product-customer experience.

Organization Redesign – Electric Vehicle Example
There are six principles of organizational redesign that are easy to implement and effective in terms of
organizational transformation if planned and executed methodically as per the construct below.
•Review external and internal ecosystems
1 •Review roles, performance and performance Internal and
Organization
External
•Identify new growth drivers at three levels Consultants
Stakeholders
2 •Departmental, new hires, Reskilling
•Determine current state and future state
3 •Prioritize transformation
Partners
•Determine new leadership requirements
4 •On-board new leaders
Search Board of
•Create organization transformation team
Agencies Directors
5 •Make the CHRO the executor
•Roll out the pilots in the identified areas
6 •Extend organization-wide after feedback
While a leader and the managers may be able to undertake all of the organization redesign activities
by themselves, it will make sense to seek external advice in certain areas because the company will
be venturing out into new domains for the first time.

Step 1: Review of Internal and External Ecosystems
Organizational redesign principles for mono-product companies are simpler compared to others. That said,
roles, processes, people and performance management system need to be reviewed every few years.
Review the
Identify the
development
internal Product, component,
and
change vendors
manufacturing
triggers
ecosystem
Identify the Review the
Customers, dealers,
external demand and
regulatory and usage
change marketing
norms
triggers ecosystem
Review the
Identify the
talent
people End-to-end value chain
ecosystem in
skills
the industry
These reviews help the company identify the gaps and take steps to redesign the organization structure and
redefine the roles. Thereafter, the structure needs to be redesigned based on appropriate principles.

Step 2: Identify New Growth Drivers
There are six principles of organizational redesign that are easy to implement if the pre-work is carried out
diligently as considered earlier in Step 1. The example of mono-product firm transforming itself from petrol
engine car to electric car business is considered below to demonstrate the second principle.
New departments/
New Hybrid
Expanded departments
Organization
New R&D Skills, Hybrid and
Electric Development Units, New Ecosystem Coordinators
Vendor Development for New for Charging Stations, Battery
Electric and Electronic Swapping, Government
Components, Technology Incentives, Vehicle Financing,
Sourcing, Vendor Investment, Dealer Development etc.,
Testing & Homologation etc.,
Review of external and internal ecosystems leads to identification of three types of gaps: (i) need for entirely new
departments, (ii) need for new skilled hires in existing departments, and (iii) need for reskilling existing employees.

Step 3: Current and Future State
The third principle is to establish the current state and the future state. Defining the future state in respect of
key in-house and external competencies helps determine the expansiveness of the redesigned organization.
Domain Current State Future State
R&D IC engine and transmission Electric powerpack and
transmission technology
EV Charging
Procurement Routine mechanical and New electrical and electronics
electricals
Vendor Part of procurement process New vendor development and
development qualification department
EV Battery
Technology Part of regular R&D New technology scanning and
sourcing sourcing department
On-road Regular servicing New department for battery
Operation charging and swapping
Start-ups
Start-up Required only minimally New department for
development evaluating and investing in EV
start-ups
Testing Routine certifications EV and component
certifications Electric Vehicle
In respect of electric transformation of automobiles, it will be a virtual reinvention of the entire component and
vehicle infrastructure. Gaps can be bridged in the usual course but such transformations require total reinvention.

Step 4: Create New Leadership Nucleus
An organization under transformation to new technologies and new business models will require a nucleus of new
leaders (or transformed leaders) who can guide and execute the redesign and transformation processes.
Apex Leader
CEO
New EV Current New EV
CXO Level Current R&D
Development Operations Operations
Head
Head Head Head
Team Leads Current New Current New
New Skilled
Reskill Departments Reskill Departments
Whole New
Upskilling New skill Hires New Leaders
Departments
Apart from strengthening the organization through the above construct, selective one-time
consultancy support can also be taken to avoid too much of fixed cost to the organization.

Step 5: Create the Organization Transformation Team
An organizational approach to create such a nucleus is illustrated below, with a three-tier approach
that takes care of governance, transformation and execution.
Organization
Governance Team (CEO, CXOs)
Transformation
Team Support
Transformation Team (Select
CXOS and CHRO) Sponsorship
Execution Team (CHRO and
Departmental Heads)
Accountability
A three-level team structure comprising the Senior Leadership Team (SLT), select SLT team members,
and executing team would be helpful for well-aligned and accountable execution.

Step 6: Pilot Rollout and Organization Expansion
Each business transformation requires a distinctive organizational execution to suit the priorities. While there are some
advantages of holistic execution, a pilot rollout could be practical in terms of optimizing costs and course-correcting.
Phase 1
Phase 2
Hybrid and Electric
Phase 3
R&D
Start-up Evaluation
Battery Vendor and Investment
External Network
Development
Full-scale Vendor (charging etc.,)
Technology Sourcing Development
Dealer Development
Testing &
Pilot and Full-scale
Homologation
Organization Rollout
Roll out pilots to Standardize
Acquire New Core Develop New
demonstrate the new Commercial EV
Competencies Components and EVs
range Range
A three-phase execution plan starting from acquisition of core technologies, core components and development and
manufacturing of electric vehicle would ensure progressive (pilot and regular) organizational and business rollout.

Missions that Made History
Sony’s founder, Akio Morita, wanted everyone to have access to “personal portable sound”, so his company created
the Walkman and portable CD player. Fred Smith wanted to deliver mail anywhere in the United States before 10.30
AM, the next day, so he created FedEx. Steve Jobs’ mission and its imprint on Apple needs no introduction.
Strategic management in the overall and strategic marketing, in particular, get a significant
inspirational guidance from a well-crafted mission.

Core Marketing Processes
The firm’s success depends on core marketing processes that are holistic in terms of meeting customer requirements.
Gathering and acting upon
Market information about the market
Sensing
Receiving and Researching,
approving developing, and
Fulfilment New Offering
orders, shipping launching new
Management Realization
goods on time high-quality
and collecting Core offerings quickly
payment and within
Marketing
budget
Processes
Building deeper
understanding,
relationships
Customer
Defining target
Customer
and offerings to
Relationship markets and
individual Acquisition
prospecting for
Management
customers
new customers
Marketing processes, focused on products and customers, have to be fully end-to-end connected as depicted above.

International Organization Structures
Global companies typically would have multiple stages of development. Not all companies that carry
out international businesses are global multi-national corporations (MNCs).
Stage 5
Stage 4
Stage 3
Stage 2
Stage 1
Domestic Domestic Primarily Multinational Multinational
company company with domestic corporation corporation
export company with with with global
division international multidomestic emphasis and
division emphasis networking
1945-2020

Thank you!
98

NPTEL COURSE
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
From Start to Scale
Week 1: Lectures 1 to 5
Business Fundamentals
Lecture 5: Business Development Cases
Prof. C Bhaktavatsala Rao, Ph.D.
Ajit Singhvi Chair Professor
Department of Management Studies
Indian Institute of Technology Madras
and
Founder – LeaderCrest Academy

Business Development by Companies
This lecture considers in a brief manner how the business development journey of different companies
can be understood based on a structured template.
Product or
Product or Service includes
Service technology
ToP
MoP
Place Customer
The marketplace
BoP
Business Marketing
Income profile
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Ownership Organisation Pricing Level vis-à-vis
competition
Means of Promotion
communication
Each of the components will vary in terms of the characteristics based on the nature of the industry and the company.

Nirma
The 1970s were the era of Nirma (founded in 1969 by Karsanbhai Patel) – the story of an indigenous product that
succeeded against an established MNC through a mix of entrepreneurial passion and business strategy.
Indigenous
Product Detergent
ToP
MoP
Place Customer
BoP
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Indian Highly
Organisation Pricing
Startup affordable
Promotion
Nirma captured the mind share of the customers through its affordable product and strong promotion.

Reliance Jio
When Reliance Industries set out on its Jio Telecom mission in 2007, it moved with a completely integrated
strategy, including but not limited to product, technology, infrastructure, people, service and marketing plan.
Jio’s marketing was strategic because it aimed at fulfilling the vision of dominating the Indian telecom space.
4G Technology Data and VoLTE;
Fibre to Home service, offering home
Service
broadband, television, and telephone services
Place Customer
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Strategic Market
Organisation Pricing
Capture Plans
Intense Promotion
Omnichannel
Reliance Jio illustrates that business development is driven by business strategy which is again driven by the vision
and mission of the company. The various elements of Jio marketing make for a complete strategic plan.

Zydus Wellness
Zydus Wellness was established in 1994 by Cadila Healthcare Group in nutritional products field. The business
was built by the sugar substitutes marketed under the Sugar Free Gold and Natura brands.
Product
ToP
MoP
Place Customer
?
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Public Limited, Organisation Pricing Import-competitive
Zydus Promoted
Promotion
Advertising
Zydus Wellness strategically positioned itself as a Wellness FMCG company, with a strong initial focus on diabetics.

Vini
Vini Cosmetics, established in 2010, is a deodorant company that achieved market dominance through multiple
initiatives. It commands three times the market share that the closest MNC rival, once a market leader, currently has.
Product
ToP
MoP
Place Customer
BoP
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
India Startup Organisation Pricing Market-competitive
Promotion
Visual Media,
3X over rivals
When the flagship product range becomes the most dominant revenue earner for the company (in this
case as much as 75 percent), it represents a huge success of business development.

L&T Construction
How does a construction company market itself, particularly when the projects are related to big infrastructure projects
funded by the governments and large public and private sector corporations, including global funding agencies?
Service
Governments,
Place Customer Public Sector,
Private Sector
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Division of Indian
Lower in Price,
Public Limited Organisation Pricing
Higher in Quality
Conglomerate
Promotion
Iconic Projects
L&T’s rapid growth and leading position, since its establishment in 1946, is a reflection of the
organisation deploying technology and execution for business development through project delivery.

The Happiest Minds
The Happiest Minds was established in 2011 by the serial entrepreneur Ashok Soota after L&T acquired his
company, MindTree. Although in a similar category as MindTree, the company won clients and grew rapidly.
IT Services
Service
Big US
Place Customer Technology
companies
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Similar pricing
Indian IT
as the rivals’
Startup, Public Organisation Pricing
but with better
Limited
delivery
Cross-selling Promotion
and Up-selling
The Happiest Minds is an interesting case study of core relationships sustaining across time and corporate formats.

Paytm
Paytm has been a pioneer for little over a decade (from 2010) in the field of digital payments in India. Notwithstanding
the great push from demonetisation, Paytm has been a success story of dedicated business development strategy.
Wallet Payments
Digital Financial Marketplace
Product
ToP
MoP
Place Customer
BoP
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Presumably
Indian Unicorn lower than
Organisation Pricing
Startup; now a Fully
listed firm Accounted
Costing
Intense Promotion
Omnichannel
Paytm is a leading case in India’s fintech startup story and has interesting verticals that show different levels of success.

Adani Green
Adani Green has been an early mover in 2015 in the renewable energy industry in India, and is the largest producer of
green energy in India. The going is challenging given the bargaining strength and financial weakness of Discoms.
Renewable Energy
Product
Place Customer
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Part of Indian
Set by
Conglomerate;
Organisation Pricing governments
Listed
and tenders
Company
Contractual Promotion
Relationships
With the Government of India going the whole hog to promote renewables and Reliance Industries deciding to move
aggressively into green energy, Adani will have both tailwinds and headwinds in its push for industry leadership.

SBI Yono
SBI Yono, established in 2017, is an interesting case of a standalone yet fully connected digital initiative of
State Bank of India becoming a great value creator for the company, with many future possibilities.
Super app for banking,
investments and e-
Product commerce
ToP
SBI’s vast
Place Customer customer MoP
base
BoP
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Opaque due to
Division of
Organisation Pricing captive
SBI
customer base
SBI co- Promotion
promotion
Despite the image of a sober public sector enterprise, SBI has been able to position Yono differently based on a
digitally-skilled youthful organisation, and an equally youthful communication and branding.

Hyundai India
Hyundai has been the only foreign car manufacturer (apart from Suzuki) that enjoyed sustainable rapid growth with
scale and competitiveness in India, from its inception in 1996. Relatively unknown initially, the Company grew its brand.
Cars and Utility Vehicles
Product
MoP
Place Customer
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
WoS
Competitive to
of Hyundai, Organisation Pricing
Maruti
S Korea
Celebrity Promotion
promotion
Marketing of automobiles has been perfected by several automotive majors over decades globally. Yet, India did
represent a huge arcane market for Hyundai. Hyundai deployed marketing and business development successfully.

iD Fresh Food
The Indian middle class became busier with work. Yet it retained its taste for tradition. To meet this gap,
iD developed a new category, from 2005, in terms of ready to cook batter and other food items.
All-natural, preservative-free
batter
Product
MoP
Place Customer
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Indian Startup; Premium
Organisation Pricing
Private Ltd
PoS and Promotion
Advertisement
Category marketing is an important component of business development. Product technology, however, is crucial for a
category to be established and grown. Product-driven strategic marketing has led many a start-up firm to scale up.

Mankind Pharma
The Indian pharmaceutical industry is one of the most competed, with hundreds of manufacturers. In such an industry,
Mankind, established in 1995, became a large pharma company, focusing on multiple therapies and domestic market.
Multiple products in multiple
therapies
Company Product
Digital
ToP
C&F
MoP
Place Customer
Retail
BoP
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Indian Startup;
Organisation Pricing Low Cost
Private Ltd
Celebrity
Promotion
corporate
brand building
Pharmaceutical marketing is popularly considered a tactical effort in India. Yet, without a strategic
approach, a new entrant such as Mankind could not have reached a Top 10 status in the industry.

Nazara Technologies
While India has been strong on digital services, digital product space has not been looked at seriously. Nazara
Technologies, founded in 1999, focused on products and services related to games and learning.
Games, Gamified Early
Learning and Sports Media
Product
Platform Company
Kids, Families,
Place Customer
Schools, Institutions
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Indian Startup,
Organisation Pricing Benchmark
Listed
Word of the
Promotion
Mouth,
Internet
Technology-driven business development requires the company to focus on adopting advanced technology platforms.

Sudarshan Chemicals
The Indian chemical industry is recognised for its chemistry and chemical engineering capabilities. With China Plus One
taking shape globally, the Indian specialty chemicals firms such as Sudarshan, founded in 1952, will scale global heights.
Specialty chemicals
Product
Global chemical and
Place Customer
pharmaceutical firms
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Indian Public Higher than
Organisation Pricing
Limited China, lower
Company than others
B2B
Promotion
communication
Marketing of chemicals falls in the B2B category. Alignment with the strategic business and sourcing
plans of the customers is vital for the strategic success of Indian chemical firms on a global basis.

Kaleesuwari Refinery
Edible Oils constitute a kitchen essential item. It is to the credit of the humble founders of Kaleesuwari Refinery that
starting with just an edible oil shop in 1973, they grew it into an integrated manufacturing and marketing business.
Edible Oils, with focus on
sunflower oil
Product
Homemakers, Hotels
Place Customer
and Restaurants
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Indian Private Premium,
Organisation Pricing
Limited compared to
Company peers
Strong TV Promotion
communication
Kaleesuwari’s masterstroke was its promotion of sunflower oil as a heart-healthy cooking oil, with
intensive marketing to promote its Gold Winner brand of sunflower oil.

Glenmark Pharma
Pharmaceuticals is a therapeutically diversified business. However, Glenmark, founded in 1977, found its niche in
dermatological products, and upon consolidation became a multi-therapeutic diversified company, with a global spread.
Pharmaceuticals, initial core
of dermatology
Product
Patients, Hospitals
Place Customer
and Clinics
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Indian Public Competitive
Organisation Pricing
Limited
Company
Doctor-focused
Promotion
medical
detailing
Glenmark gained with its singular focus on dermatology, a space neglected by most other pharmaceutical makers.

Apollo Hospitals
Starting with a clinic in Chennai, Dr Pratap Reddy broke new ground by setting up the first corporate hospital in
Chennai by name Apollo Hospitals in 1983 and went on to develop it into a reputed pan-India hospital chain.
Multi-specialty Healthcare with
comprehensive diagnostic and
Product
pharmacy services
Place Customer Patients
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Indian Public
Organisation Pricing
Premium
Limited
Company
Word-of-mouth Promotion
and flexis,
banner ads
Apollo Hospitals created its core and brand by bringing to India the Western model of healthcare practice, with top-
class doctors, paramedics, diagnostics and pharmacies. It became one of the most reputed brands in India.

GRT Jewellers
Starting with a small jewellery shop in Chennai in 1964, G Rajendran broke new ground from the 1970s by
setting up large-format jewellery shops in Chennai and other cities. GRT further diversified into hotels business.
Jewellery and accessories
Product
Individuals and
Metros and
Place Customer families across
Tier 1 cities
segments
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Indian Private
Organisation Pricing
Competitive
Limited
Company
Aggressive Promotion
advertisement
GRT demonstrated a seamless transition from small format stores to large format stores with exchange
and savings schemes as well as modernisation of designs and manufacturing.

Hatsun
Hatsun started in 1970 as a milk supply unit and grew rapidly into a highly diversified dairy products company with a
coverage extending to lakhs of dairy farmers and by leveraging technology and transparency in a big way.
Dairy products
Product
Place Customer Households and
Businesses
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Indian Public
Organisation Pricing
Competitive
Limited
Company
Comprehensive Promotion
ATL and BTL
advertising
Hatsun created its core business and brand by adopting scientific and responsible processes in milk
collection, processing and distribution, backed by intensive marketing in focused markets.

Groz Engineering Products
Initially starting in 1976 as a manufacturer and supplier of bicycle parts, Groz evolved as a major manufacturer of
diversified hand tools that are supplied globally. The company grew with a balance of organic and inorganic growth.
Hand Tools
Product
Global businesses
Place Customer
and hand tool users
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Indian Private
Organisation Pricing
Competitive
Limited
Company
Direct Promotion
relationships
Although a private limited company, Groz grew because of its focus on design thinking and customer satisfaction.

Notion Press
Notion Press started in 2012 as a self-publishing medium for budding authors and has evolved into a leading self-
publishing house bringing out the works of thousands of authors from India and other parts of the world.
Self-publishing of books
Service
Budding and
Place Customer
established writers
and authors
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Indian Private Multi-tier
Organisation Pricing
Limited pricing
Company
Intensive digital
Promotion
social media
promotion
Notion Press is a successful start-up that caught the writer’s fancy with its concept and digital publishing execution.

1mg
Established in 2015 to disintermediate the supply of medicines to patients through digital technology, 1mg grew rapidly
to become a successful online pharmacy, now also into diagnostic services and online medical consultations.
Online medicine supplies, lab
services and medical
Product
consultations
Place Customer Individuals and
Families
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
An Indian
Private Limited Discounted
Organisation Pricing
Company; now Pricing
a Tata Group
Company
Digital and
social media Promotion
and print
promotion
The skill in forging relationships with distributors and chemists and a dynamic digital platform drive 1mg success.

Zomato
Starting as a food and review entity in 2008, Zomato was quick to see the potential for food delivery and established
itself as a leading food supply company, operating all over India. Its technology platform has been its USP.
Online food ordering and
delivery
Service
Individuals, Families
Place Customer
and Businesses
Business Marketing
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
A successful
Discounted
Indian start-up, Organisation Pricing
Pricing
now is a Public
Limited
Company
Digital and
social media Promotion
and print
promotion
Ability to develop a pan-India delivery force and forge relationships with hotels & restaurants drove Zomato’s success.

Business Development by Companies
This lecture considered in a brief manner how the business development journey of different companies
could be understood based on a structured template.
Product or
Product or Service includes
Service technology
ToP
MoP
Place Customer
The marketplace
BoP
Business Marketing
Income profile
Core
Strategies
Finance Operations
Ownership Organisation Pricing Level vis-à-vis
competition
Means of Promotion
communication
Each of these components did vary in terms of the characteristics based on the nature of the industry and the company.

Thank you!
125

